                                          ABSTRACT
Provided are compositions and methods for improving diaphragm function in a patient by
administering to the patient an effective amount of a skeletal muscle troponin activator or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

                    METHODS FOR IMPROVING DIAPHRAGM FUNCTION
[0001] This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013243671, the
entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. This application claims
priority to U.S. AppIn. No. 61/619,261, filed April 2, 2012, which is incorporated herein by
reference for all purposes.
[0002] Diaphragm separates the thoracic and abdominal cavities and is the principal
muscle of respiration. Diaphragm is primarily composed of fatigue-resistant slow-switch
type I and fast-switch type Ila myofibers. Disease processes that interfere with
diaphragmatic innervation, contractile properties, or mechanical coupling to the chest wall
can result in diaphragmatic dysfunction which, in turn, can lead to dyspnea, decreased
exercise performance, sleep-disordered breathing, constitutional symptoms, hypersomnia,
reduced quality of life, atelectasis, and respiratory failure.
[0003]     Dysfunction of the diaphragm ranges from a partial loss of the ability to generate
pressure (weakness) to a complete loss of diaphragmatic function (paralysis). Patients with
bilateral diaphragmatic paralysis or severe diaphragmatic weakness are likely to have
dyspnea or recurrent respiratory failure. They can have considerable dyspnea at rest, when
supine, with exertion, or when immersed in water above their waist. Further, patients with
bilateral diaphragmatic paralysis are at an increased risk for sleep fragmentation and
hypoventilation during sleep. Initial symptoms may include fatigue, hypersomnia,
depression, morning headaches, and frequent nocturnal awakenings. Other complications
of bilateral diaphragmatic paralysis include subsegmental atelectasis and infections of the
lower respiratory tract.
[0004]     Diaphragm dysfunction can be caused and coexist with other diseases or
conditions such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD), asthma, heart failure, spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), and muscular
dystrophy.
[0005]     In healthy humans most skeletal muscles are composed of both fast and slow
fibers, although the proportions of each vary with muscle type. Slow skeletal fibers, often
called type I fibers, have more structural similarity with cardiac muscle and tend to be used
more for fine and postural control. They usually have a greater oxidative capacity and are
more resistant to fatigue with continued use. Fast skeletal muscle fibers, often called type II
                                                -1-

fibers, are classified into fast oxidative (Ila) and fast glycolytic (type IIx/d) fibers. While
these muscle fibers have different myosin types, they share many components including the
troponin and tropomyosin regulatory proteins. Fast skeletal muscle fibers tend to exert
greater force but fatigue faster than slow skeletal muscle fibers and are functionally useful
for acute, large scale movements such as rising from a chair or correcting falls. Healthy
diaphragm contains approximately equal amounts of fast and slow skeletal muscle fibers,
but the proportion can change under diseased conditions.
[0006]     Provided are compositions and methods for improving diaphragm function. In
some embodiments, the methods comprise administering to a patient or contacting a
diaphragm skeletal muscle fiber with an effective amount of a skeletal muscle troponin
activator. Likewise, compositions and methods are also provided for increasing the
function, activity, efficiency, sensitivity to calcium, or time to fatigue of skeletal muscle in the
diaphragm.
[0007]     In some embodiments, the patient receiving such administration suffers from
diaphragmatic atrophy. In some embodiments, the patient suffers from a disease or
condition selected from ventilator-induced diaphragmatic weakness or atrophy,
steroid-induced diaphragmatic atrophy, hemidiaphragm paralysis, fetal hydrops, pleural
effusion, botulinum poisoning, organophosphate poisoning, Guillain-Barre syndrome,
phrenic nerve dysfunction, asthma, heart failure, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), spinal
muscular atrophy (SMA), and muscular dystrophy. In some embodiments, the patient is in
use of mechanical ventilation. In some embodiments, the patient undertakes an intense
physical activity or is in an environment with a reduced partial pressure of oxygen in the air.
[0008]     In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a chemical entity
selected from compounds of Formula A and compounds of Formula B:
         R          N                            R4         N         H
                              N                                       N
                                        OH                                     O
               R, N           NN                                      N
                R               \R2               Ri\R2
                Formula A                               Formula B
and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein R1, R2 and R4 are as defined herein.
         [0009]    In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a chemical
                                                   -2-

entity selected from compounds of Formula I:
                         R
                                             9
                                        (CR8 R )m        R
                         3:         ~
               R3                   N
                                    R4           R5   R6
                              Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, R , R , R , R8 , R9 , X
and m are as defined herein.
[0010]    Other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from
the following detailed description.
                               Brief Description of the Figures
[0011]    FIG. 1 shows concentration-response curves for Compound A in skinned rabbit
psoas fiber and skinned rat diaphragm fiber preparations at a constant calcium
concentration.
[0012]    FIG. 2 shows the force produced by skinned rat diaphragm fibers at various
calcium concentrations when treated with Compound B at different concentrations.
[0013]    FIG. 3 shows the force produced by skinned rat diaphragm fibers at various
calcium concentrations when treated with Compound C at different concentrations.
[0014]    FIG. 4A shows mean diaphragm cross sectional area from SHAM and LAD rats.
Mean diaphragm cross sectional area was significantly lower in HF diaphragm muscle.
[0015]    FIG. 4B shows mean diaphragm type I myofiber area cross sectional area from
SHAM and LAD rats.
[0016]    FIG. 4C shows mean diaphragm type Ila myofiber area cross sectional area from
SHAM and LAD rats. Significant atrophy can be seen in type Ila fibers in HF diaphragms.
[0017]    FIG. 4D shows mean diaphragm type Ilb/x myofiber area cross sectional area from
SHAM and LAD rats. Significant atrophy can be seen in type Ilb/x fibers in HF diaphragms.
[0018]    FIG. 5 shows the force production in SHAM and HF rat diaphragm muscle
measured by ex-vivo electrical field stimulation. HF diaphragm muscle produced
significantly lower force compared to SHAM diaphragms.
                                               -3-

[0019]     FIG. 6 shows force production in rat diaphragm muscle measured by ex-vivo
electrical field stimulation in the presence and absence of Compound B. Diaphragm muscle
treated with Compund B produced significantly more force compared to vehicle-only
diaphragms at frequencies up to 30Hz of electrical stimulation.
[0020]     FIG. 7 shows force production measured over 600 contractions in rat diaphragm
muscle ex vivo by field electrical stimulation in the presence and absence of Compound B.
Diaphragm muscle treated with Compound B produced significantly more force compared
to vehicle-only diaphragms in a dose-dependent manner.
[0021]     FIG. 8A shows force production in SHAM rat diaphragm muscle measured by ex
vivo electrical field stimulation in the presence and absence of Compound D. Compound D
significantly increased force in SHAM diaphragms at submaximal frequencies of electrical
stimulation.
[0022]     FIG. 8B shows force production in LAD rat diaphragm muscle measured by ex
vivo electrical field stimulation in the presence and absence of Compound D. Compound D
significantly increased force in LAD diaphragms at submaximal frequencies of electrical
stimulation.
[0023]     FIG. 9 shows force produced by LAD and SHAM skinned rat diaphragm fibers at
various calcium concentrations in the presence and absence of Compound D. Compound
D significantly increased Ca2 , sensitivity in both SHAM and HF diaphragm fibers.
[0024]     FIG. 10 shows force production measured ex vivo by electrical field stimulation in
mouse diaphragms harvested from WT and SOD1 mice at various concentrations of
Compound C. Both WT and SOD1 diaphragm muscle treated with Compound C produced
significantly more force compared to vehicle-only diaphragms at frequencies up to 30Hz of
electrical stimulation.
[0025]     FIG. 11 shows respiratory parameters assessed before, during, and after a 30
minute 5% CO2 challenge by unrestrained whole body plethysmography in SOD1 mice.
Compared to vehicle-treated animals, Compound C treated animals had significantly higher
tidal volume at baseline and at recovery after a 30 minute exposure to a 5% CO2 gas
mixture.
 [0026]    As used in the present specification, the following words and phrases are
generally intended to have the meanings as set forth below, except to the extent that the
context in which they are used indicates otherwise.
                                                 -4-

[0027]    Throughout this application, unless the context indicates otherwise, references to a
compound of a formula, e.g., Formula A or I, includes all subgroups of the formula defined
herein, including all substructures, subgenera, preferences, embodiments, examples and
particular compounds described herein.
[0028]    References to a compound of a formula and subgroups thereof include ionic
forms, polymorphs, pseudopolymorphs, amorphous forms, solvates, co-crystals, chelates,
isomers, tautomers, oxides (e.g., N-oxides, S-oxides), esters, prodrugs, isotopes and/or
protected forms thereof. "Crystalline form," "polymorph," and "novel form" may be used
interchangeably herein, and are meant to include all crystalline and amorphous forms of the
compound, including, for example, polymorphs, pseudopolymorphs, solvates (including
hydrates), co-crystals, unsolvated polymorphs (including anhydrates), conformational
polymorphs, and amorphous forms, as well as mixtures thereof, unless a particular
crystalline or amorphous form is referred to. In some embodiments, references to a
compound of a formula (e.g., a compound of Formula A, Formula B, and/or Formula I) and
subgroups thereof include polymorphs, solvates, co-crystals, isomers, tautomers and/or
oxides thereof. In some embodiments, references to a compound of a formula (e.g., a
compound of Formula A, Formula B, and/or Formula I) and subgroups thereof include
polymorphs, solvates, and/or co-crystals thereof. In some embodiments, references to a
compound of a formula (e.g., a compound of Formula A, Formula B, and/or Formula I) and
subgroups thereof include isomers, tautomers and/or oxides thereof. In some
embodiments, references to a compound of a formula (e.g., a compound of Formula A,
Formula B, and/or Formula I) and subgroups thereof include solvates thereof. Similarly, the
term "salts" includes solvates of salts of compounds.
[0029]    By "optional" or "optionally" is meant that the subsequently described event or
circumstance may or may not occur, and that the description includes instances where the
event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example, "optionally
substituted alkyl" encompasses both "alkyl" and "substituted alkyl" as defined herein. It will
be understood by those skilled in the art, with respect to any group containing one or more
substituents, that such groups are not intended to introduce any substitution or substitution
patterns that are sterically impractical, synthetically non-feasible, and/or inherently unstable.
[0030]    When a range of values is given (e.g., C1-6 alkyl), each value within the range as
well as all intervening ranges are included. For example,     "C1_6 alkyl" includes C1, C2, C3, C4,
                                                -5-

C5, C6, C1-6, C2-6, C3_6, C4-6, C5-6, C-_, C2-5, C3_5, C4_5, C1-4, C2-4, C3_4, C1-3, C2-3, and C12
alkyl.
[0031]     When a moiety is defined as being optionally substituted, it may be substituted as
itself or as part of another moiety. For example, if Rx is defined as         "C1-6 alkyl or OC1_ alkyl,
wherein C1_ alkyl is optionally subsituted with halogen", then both the C1 _ alkyl group alone
and the C1_ alkyl that makes up part of the OC1_ alkyl group may be substituted with
halogen.
[0032]     "Alkyl" encompasses straight chain and branched chain having the indicated
number of carbon atoms, usually from 1 to 20 carbon atoms, for example 1 to 8 carbon
atoms, such as 1 to 6 carbon atoms. For example           01-C   alkyl encompasses both straight
and branched chain alkyl of from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. When an alkyl residue having a
specific number of carbons is named, all branched and straight chain versions having that
number of carbons are intended to be encompassed; thus, for example, "butyl" is meant to
include n-butyl, sec-butyl, isobutyl and t-butyl; "propyl" includes npropyl and isopropyl.
"Lower alkyl" refers to alkyl groups having one to seven carbons. In certain embodiments,
"lower alkyl" refers to alkyl groups having one to six carbons. Examples of alkyl groups
include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl, tert- butyl, pentyl, 2-pentyl,
isopentyl, neopentyl, hexyl, 2-hexyl, 3-hexyl, 3-methylpentyl, and the like. Alkylene is a
subset of alkyl, referring to the same residues as alkyl, but having two points of attachment.
Alkylene groups will usually have from 2 to 20 carbon atoms, for example 2 to 8 carbon
atoms, such as from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. For example, CO alkylene indicates a covalent
bond and C1 alkylene is a methylene group.
[0033]     "Haloalkyl" includes straight and branched carbon chains having the indicated
number of carbon atoms (e.g., 1 to 6 carbon atoms) substituted with at least one halogen
atom. In instances wherein the haloalkyl group contains more than one halogen atom, the
halogens may be the same (e.g., dichloromethyl) or different (e.g., chlorofluoromethyl).
Examples of haloalkyl groups include, but are not limited to, chloromethyl, dichloromethyl,
trichloromethyl, fluoromethyl, difluoromethyl, trifluoromethyl, chlorofluoromethyl,
2-fluoroethyl, 2,2-difluoroethyl, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl, 1,2-difluoroethyl, 2-chloroethyl,
2,2-dichloroethyl, 2,2,2-trichloroethyl, 1,2-dichloroethyl, pentachloroethyl, and
pentafluoroethyl.
                                                   -6-

[0034]    "Alkenyl" refers to an unsaturated branched or straight-chain alkyl group having at
least one carbon-carbon double bond derived by the removal of one molecule of hydrogen
from adjacent carbon atoms of the parent alkyl. The group may be in either the cis or trans
configuration about the double bond(s). Typical alkenyl groups include, but are not limited
to, ethenyl; propenyls such as prop-1-en-1-yl, prop-1-en-2-yl, prop-2en-1-yl (allyl),
prop-2-en-2-yl; butenyls such as but-1 -en-1 -yl, but-1 -en-2-yl, 2-methylprop-1 -en-1 -yl,
but-2-en-1-yl, but-2-en-1-yl, but-2-en-2-yl, buta-1,3-dien-1-yl, buta-1,3dien-2-yl; and the like.
In certain embodiments, an alkenyl group has from 2 to 20 carbon atoms and in other
embodiments, from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. "Lower alkenyl" refers to alkenyl groups having
two to six carbons.
[0035]    "Alkynyl" refers to an unsaturated branched or straight-chain alkyl group having at
least one carbon-carbon triple bond derived by the removal of two molecules of hydrogen
from adjacent carbon atoms of the parent alkyl. Typical alkynyl groups include, but are not
limited to, ethynyl; propynyls such as prop-1-yn-1-yl, prop-2-yn-1-yl; butynyls such as
but-1-yn-1-yl, but-1-yn-3-yl, but-3-yn-1-yl; and the like. In certain embodiments, an alkynyl
group has from 2 to 20 carbon atoms and in other embodiments, from 3 to 6 carbon atoms.
"Lower alkynyl" refers to alkynyl groups having two to six carbons.
[0036]    "Cycloalkyl" indicates a non-aromatic carbocyclic ring, usually having from 3 to 7
ring carbon atoms. The ring may be saturated or have one or more carbon-carbon double
bonds. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl,
cyclopentenyl, cyclohexyl, and cyclohexenyl, as well as bridged and caged ring groups such
as norbornane.
[0037]    "Cycloalkenyl" indicates a non-aromatic carbocyclic ring, containing the indicated
number of carbon atoms (e.g., 3 to 10, or 3 to 8, or 3 to 6 ring carbon atoms) and at least
one carbon-carbon double bond derived by the removal of one molecule of hydrogen from
adjacent carbon atoms of the corresponding cycloalkyl. Cycloalkenyl groups may be
monocyclic or polycyclic (e.g., bicyclic, tricyclic). Examples of cycloalkenyl groups include
cyclopropenyl, cyclobutenyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclopentadienyl, and cyclohexenyl, as well as
bridged and caged ring groups (e.g., bicyclo[2.2.2]octene). In addition, one ring of a
polycyclic cycloalkenyl group may be aromatic, provided the polycyclic alkenyl group is
bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic carbon atom. For example, inden-1-yl
(wherein the moiety is bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic carbon atom) is
                                                  -7-

considered a cycloalkenyl group, while inden-4-yl (wherein the moiety is bound to the parent
structure via an aromatic carbon atom) is not considered a cycloalkenyl group. Examples of
polycyclic cycloalkenyl groups consisting of a cycloalkenyl group fused to an aromatic ring
are described below.
[0038]    The term "alkoxy" refers to the group -0-alkyl, including from 1 to 8 carbon atoms
of a straight, branched, cyclic configuration and combinations thereof attached to the parent
structure through an oxygen. Examples include methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy,
cyclopropyloxy, cyclohexyloxy and the like. "Lower alkoxy" refers to alkoxy groups
containing one to six carbons.
 [0039]    The term "substituted alkoxy" refers to alkoxy wherein the alkyl constituent is
substituted (i.e., -O-(substituted alkyl)) wherein "substituted alkyl" refers to alkyl wherein one
or more (such as up to 5, for example, up to 3) hydrogen atoms are replaced by a
substituent independently chosen from:
        -Ra, -OR , optionally substituted amino (including -NRcCOR , -NRcO            2Ra
-NRcCONRbRc, -NRbC(NRc)NRbRc, -NRbC(NCN)NRbRc, and -NRcSO 2Ra), halo, cyano,
nitro, oxo (as a substitutent for cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, and heteroaryl), optionally
substituted acyl (such as -CORb), optionally substituted alkoxycarbonyl (such as -CO 2 Rb),
aminocarbonyl (such as -CONR R), -OCORb, -OCO 2 Ra, -OCONRbRc, -OCONRbRc,
-OP(O)(ORb)ORc, sulfanyl (such as SRb), sulfinyl (such as -SORa), and sulfonyl (such as
SO 2 Ra and -SO 2NRbRc%
        where Ra is chosen from optionally substituted C1-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted
alkenyl, optionally substituted alkynyl, optionally substituted aryl, and optionally substituted
heteroaryl;
        Rb is chosen from H, optionally substituted C1-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted
cycloalkyl, optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, and optionally
substituted heteroaryl; and
        Rc is independently chosen from hydrogen and optionally substituted C1-C4 alkyl; or
        Rb and Rc, and the nitrogen to which they are attached, form an optionally
substituted heterocycloalkyl group; and
        where each optionally substituted group is unsubstituted or independently substituted
with one or more, such as one, two, or three, substituents independently selected from
C1-C4 alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aryl-C 1 -C4 alkyl-, heteroaryl-C 1 -C4 alkyl-, C1-C4 haloalkyl,
                                                   -8-

-OC1-C4 alkyl, -OC1-C4 alkylphenyl, -C1-C4 alkyl-OH, -OC1-C4 haloalkyl, halo, -OH, -NH2 ,
-C1-C4   alkyl-NH 2, -N(C1 -C4 alkyl)(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -NH(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -N(C1 -C4 alkyl)(C 1 -C4
alkylphenyl), -NH(C 1 -C4 alkylphenyl), cyano, nitro, oxo (as a substituent for cycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkyl, or heteroaryl), -C0 2 H, -C(O)OC1-C4 alkyl, -CON(C 1 -C4 alkyl)(C 1 -C4 alkyl),
-CONH(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -CONH 2 , -NHC(O)(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -NHC(O)(phenyl),
-N(C1 -C4alkyl)C(O)(C1 -C4alkyl), -N(C1 -C4 alkyl)C(O)(phenyl), -C(0)C1-C4 alkyl, -C(O)C1-C4
alkylphenyl, -C(O)C1-04 haloalkyl, -OC(O)C1-C4 alkyl, -S0 2 (C 1-C 4 alkyl), -S0 2(phenyl),
-S0 2(C1 -C4 haloalkyl), -S0 2 NH 2 , -SO 2 NH(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -S0 2 NH(phenyl), -NHS0 2(C1 -C4
alkyl), -NHS0 2(phenyl), and -NHS0 2(C1 -C 4 haloalkyl).
[0040]     In some embodiments, a substituted alkoxy group is "polyalkoxy" or -0-(optionally
substituted alkylene)-(optionally substituted alkoxy), and includes groups such as
-OCH 2CH 20CH 3, and residues of glycol ethers such as polyethyleneglycol, and
-O(CH 2CH 20)xCH 3, where x is an integer of 2-20, such as 2-10, and for example, 2-5.
Another substituted alkoxy group is hydroxyalkoxy or -OCH 2(CH2)yOH, where y is an
integer of 1-10, such as 1-4.
[0041]     The term "alkoxycarbonyl" refers to a group of the formula (alkoxy)(C=O)- attached
through the carbonyl carbon wherein the alkoxy group has the indicated number of carbon
atoms. Thus a C1-C alkoxycarbonyl group is an alkoxy group having from 1 to 6 carbon
atoms attached through its oxygen to a carbonyl linker. "Lower alkoxycarbonyl" refers to an
alkoxycarbonyl group wherein the alkoxy group is a lower alkoxy group.
[0042]     The term "substituted alkoxycarbonyl" refers to the group (substituted
alkyl)-O-C(O)- wherein the group is attached to the parent structure through the carbonyl
functionality and wherein substituted refers to alkyl wherein one or more (such as up to 5,
for example, up to 3) hydrogen atoms are replaced by a substituent independently chosen
from:
         -Ra, -ORb, optionally substituted amino (including -NRcCOR, -NRcC0 2Ra
-NRcCONRbRc, -NRbC(NRc)NRbRc, -NRbC(NCN)NRbRc, and -NRcS0 2Ra), halo, cyano,
nitro, oxo (as a substitutent for cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, and heteroaryl), optionally
substituted acyl (such as -CORb) optionally substituted alkoxycarbonyl (such as -C0 2 Rb),
aminocarbonyl (such as -CONRbRc), -OCORb, -OC0 2 Ra, -OCONRbRc, -OCONRbRc,
-OP(O)(ORb)ORc, sulfanyl (such as SRb), sulfinyl (such as -SORa), and sulfonyl (such as
-SO 2 R and -S0 2NRbRc%
                                                     -9-

         where Ra is chosen from optionally substituted C1-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted
alkenyl, optionally substituted alkynyl, optionally substituted aryl, and optionally substituted
heteroaryl;
         Rb is chosen from H, optionally substituted C1-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted
cycloalkyl, optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, and optionally
substituted heteroaryl; and
         Rc is independently chosen from hydrogen and optionally substituted C1-C4 alkyl; or
         Rb and Rc, and the nitrogen to which they are attached, form an optionally
substituted heterocycloalkyl group; and
         where each optionally substituted group is unsubstituted or independently substituted
with one or more, such as one, two, or three, substituents independently selected from
C1-C4   alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aryl-C 1 -C4 alkyl-, heteroaryl-C 1 -C4 alkyl-, C1-C4 haloalkyl,
-OC1-C4 alkyl, -OC1-C4 alkylphenyl, -C1-C4 alkyl-OH, -OC1-C4 haloalkyl, halo, -OH, -NH2 ,
-C1-C4   alkyl-NH 2, -N(C1 -C4 alkyl)(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -NH(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -N(C1 -C4 alkyl)(C 1 -C4
alkylphenyl), -NH(C 1 -C4 alkylphenyl), cyano, nitro, oxo (as a substitutent for cycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkyl, or heteroaryl), -C0 2 H, -C(O)OC1-C4 alkyl, -CON(C 1 -C4 alkyl)(C 1 -C4 alkyl),
-CONH(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -CONH 2 , -NHC(O)(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -NHC(O)(phenyl), -N(C1 -C4
alkyl)C(O)(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -N(C1 -C4 alkyl)C(O)(phenyl), -C(O)C1-C4 alkyl, -C(O)C1-C4
alkylphenyl, -C(O)C1-C4 haloalkyl, -OC(O)C1-C4 alkyl, -S0 2 (C1 -C 4 alkyl), -S0 2(phenyl),
-S0 2(C1 -C4 haloalkyl), -SO 2 NH2 , -SO 2 NH(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -SO 2 NH(phenyl), -NHSO 2(C1 -C4
alkyl), -NHSO 2(phenyl), and -NHSO 2 (C 1 -C 4 haloalkyl).
[0043]      "Aryl" encompasses:
         6-membered carbocyclic aromatic rings, for example, benzene;
         bicyclic ring systems wherein at least one ring is carbocyclic and aromatic, for
example, naphthalene, indane, and tetralin; and
         tricyclic ring systems wherein at least one ring is carbocyclic and aromatic, for
example, fluorene.
[0044]      For example, aryl includes 6-membered carbocyclic aromatic rings fused to a 5- to
7-membered heterocycloalkyl ring containing 1 or more heteroatoms chosen from N, 0, and
S. For such fused, bicyclic ring systems wherein only one of the rings is a carbocyclic
aromatic ring, the point of attachment may be at the carbocyclic aromatic ring or the
heterocycloalkyl ring. Bivalent radicals formed from substituted benzene derivatives and
                                                    -10-

having the free valences at ring atoms are named as substituted phenylene radicals.
Bivalent radicals derived from univalent polycyclic hydrocarbon radicals whose names end
in "-yl" by removal of one hydrogen atom from the carbon atom with the free valence are
named by adding "-idene" to the name of the corresponding univalent radical, e.g., a
naphthyl group with two points of attachment is termed naphthylidene. Aryl, however, does
not encompass or overlap in any way with heteroaryl, separately defined below. Hence, if
one or more carbocyclic aromatic rings is fused with a heterocycloalkyl aromatic ring, the
resulting ring system is heteroaryl, not aryl, as defined herein.
[0045]      "Aralkoxy" refers to the group -0-aralkyl. Similarly, "heteroaralkoxy" refers to the
group -0-heteroaralkyl; "aryloxy" refers to -0-aryl; and "heteroaryloxy" refers to the group
-0-heteroaryl.
[0046]      "Aralkyl" refers to a residue in which an aryl moiety is attached to the parent
structure via an alkyl residue. Examples include benzyl, phenethyl, phenylvinyl, phenylallyl
and the like. "Heteroaralkyl" refers to a residue in which a heteroaryl moiety is attached to
the parent structure via an alkyl residue. Examples include furanylmethyl, pyridinylmethyl,
pyrimidinylethyl and the like.
[0047]      "Halogen" or "halo" refers to fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine. Dihaloaryl,
dihaloalkyl, trihaloaryl etc. refer to aryl and alkyl substituted with a plurality of halogens, but
not necessarily a plurality of the same halogen; thus 4-chloro-3-fluorophenyl is within the
scope of dihaloaryl.
[0048]      "Heteroaryl" encompasses:
         5- to 7-membered aromatic, monocyclic rings containing one or more, for example,
from 1 to 4, or in certain embodiments, from 1 to 3, heteroatoms chosen from N, 0, and S,
with the remaining ring atoms being carbon;
         bicyclic heterocycloalkyl rings containing one or more, for example, from 1 to 4, or in
certain embodiments, from 1 to 3, heteroatoms chosen from N, 0, and S, with the
remaining ring atoms being carbon and wherein at least one heteroatom is present in an
aromatic ring; and
         tricyclic heterocycloalkyl rings containing one or more, for example, from 1 to 5, or in
certain embodiments, from 1 to 4, heteroatoms chosen from N, 0, and S, with the
remaining ring atoms being carbon and wherein at least one heteroatom is present in an
aromatic ring.
                                                  -11-

[0049]    For example, heteroaryl includes a 5- to 7-membered heterocycloalkyl, aromatic
ring fused to a 5- to 7-membered cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl ring. For such fused, bicyclic
heteroaryl ring systems wherein only one of the rings contains one or more heteroatoms,
the point of attachment may be at either ring. When the total number of S and 0 atoms in
the heteroaryl group exceeds 1, those heteroatoms are not adjacent to one another. In
certain embodiments, the total number of S and 0 atoms in the heteroaryl group is not
more than 2. In certain embodiments, the total number of S and 0 atoms in the aromatic
heterocycle is not more than 1. Examples of heteroaryl groups include, but are not limited
to, (as numbered from the linkage position assigned priority 1), 2-pyridyl, 3-pyridyl, 4-pyridyl,
2,3-pyrazinyl, 3,4-pyrazinyl, 2,4-pyrimidinyl, 3,5-pyrimidinyl, 2,3-pyrazolinyl, 2,4-imidazolinyl,
isoxazolinyl, oxazolinyl, thiazolinyl, thiadiazolinyl, tetrazolyl, thienyl, benzothiophenyl,
furanyl, benzofuranyl, benzoimidazolinyl, indolinyl, pyridazinyl, triazolyl, quinolinyl, pyrazolyl,
and 5,6,7,8-tetrahydroisoquinolinyl. Bivalent radicals derived from univalent heteroaryl
radicals whose names end in "-yl" by removal of one hydrogen atom from the atom with the
free valence are named by adding "-idene" to the name of the corresponding univalent
radical, e.g., a pyridyl group with two points of attachment is a pyridylidene. Heteroaryl does
not encompass or overlap with aryl, cycloalkyl, or heterocycloalkyl, as defined herein
[0050]    Substituted heteroaryl also includes ring systems substituted with one or more
oxide (-0-) substituents, such as pyridinyl N-oxides.
[0051]    By "heterocycloalkyl" is meant a single, non-aromatic ring, usually with 3 to 7 ring
atoms, containing at least 2 carbon atoms in addition to 1-3 heteroatoms independently
selected from oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen, as well as combinations comprising at least one
of the foregoing heteroatoms. The ring may be saturated or have one or more
carbon-carbon double bonds. Suitable heterocycloalkyl groups include, for example (as
numbered from the linkage position assigned priority 1), 2-pyrrolidinyl, 2,4-imidazolidinyl,
2,3-pyrazolidinyl, 2-piperidyl, 3-piperidyl, 4-piperidyl, and 2,5-piperizinyl. Morpholinyl groups
are also contemplated, including 2-morpholinyl and 3-morpholinyl (numbered wherein the
oxygen is assigned priority 1). Substituted heterocycloalkyl also includes ring systems
substituted with one or more oxo (=O) or oxide (-0-) substituents, such as piperidinyl
N-oxide, morpholinyl-N-oxide, 1-oxo-1-thiomorpholinyl and 1,1-dioxo-1-thiomorpholinyl.
[0052]    "Heterocycloalkyl" also includes bicyclic ring systems wherein one non-aromatic
ring, usually with 3 to 7 ring atoms, contains at least 2 carbon atoms in addition to 1-3
                                                 -12-

heteroatoms independently selected from oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen, as well as
combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing heteroatoms; and the other ring,
usually with 3 to 7 ring atoms, optionally contains 1-3 heteratoms independently selected
from oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen and is not aromatic.
[0053]     "Heterocycloalkenyl" indicates a non-aromatic ring having the indicated number of
atoms (e.g., 3 to 10, or 3 to 7, membered heterocycloalkyl) made up of one or more
heteroatoms (e.g., 1, 2, 3 or 4 heteroatoms) selected from N, 0 and S and with the
remaining ring atoms being carbon, and at least one double bond derived by the removal of
one molecule of hydrogen from adjacent carbon atoms, adjacent nitrogen atoms, or
adjacent carbon and nitrogen atoms of the corresponding heterocycloalkyl.
Heterocycloalkenyl groups may be monocyclic or polycyclic (e.g., bicyclic, tricyclic). When
nitrogen is present in a heterocycloalkenyl ring, it may, where the nature of the adjacent
atoms and groups permits, exist in an oxidized state (i.e., N*-O-).    Additionally, when sulfur
is present in a heterocycloalkenyl ring, it may, where the nature of the adjacent atoms and
groups permits, exist in an oxidized state (i.e., S*-O- or -SO 2 -). Examples of
heterocycloalkenyl groups include dihydrofuranyl (e.g., 2,3-dihydrofuranyl,
2,5-dihydrofuranyl), dihydrothiophenyl (e.g., 2,3-dihydrothiophenyl, 2,5-dihydrothiophenyl),
dihydropyrrolyl (e.g., 2,3-dihydro-1 H-pyrrolyl, 2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrolyl), dihydroimidazolyl
(e.g., 2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazolyl, 4,5-dihydro-1 H-imidazolyl), pyranyl, dihydropyranyl (e.g.,
3,4-dihydro-2H-pyranyl, 3,6-dihydro-2H-pyranyl), tetrahydropyridinyl (e.g.,
1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyridinyl, 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridinyl) and dihydropyridine (e.g.,
1,2-dihydropyridine, 1,4-dihydropyridine). In addition, one ring of a polycyclic
heterocycloalkenyl group may be aromatic (e.g., aryl or heteroaryl), provided the polycyclic
heterocycloalkenyl group is bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic carbon or
nitrogen atom. For example, a 1,2-dihydroquinolin-1-yl group (wherein the moiety is bound
to the parent structure via a non-aromatic nitrogen atom) is considered a heterocycloalkenyl
group, while 1,2-dihydroquinolin-8-yl group (wherein the moiety is bound to the parent
structure via an aromatic carbon atom) is not considered a heterocycloalkenyl group.
Examples of polycyclic heterocycloalkenyl groups consisting of a heterocycloalkenyl group
fused to an aromatic ring are described below.
[0054]    Examples of polycyclic rings consisting of an aromatic ring (e.g., aryl or heteroaryl)
fused to a non-aromatic ring (e.g., cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, heterocycloalkyl,
                                                -13-

heterocycloalkenyl) include indenyl, 2,3-dihydro-1 H-indenyl, 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalenyl,
benzo[1,3]dioxolyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzo[1,4]dioxinyl, indolinyl, isoindolinyl,
2,3-dihydro-1 H-indazolyl, 2,3-dihydro-1 H-benzo[d]imidazolyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzofuranyl,
1,3-dihydroisobenzofuranyl, 1,3-dihydrobenzo[c]isoxazolyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]isoxazolyl,
2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]oxazolyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzo[b]thiophenyl, 1,3-dihydrobenzo[c]thiophenyl,
1,3-dihydrobenzo[c]isothiazolyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]isothiazolyl,
2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]thiazolyl, 5,6-dihydro-4H-cyclopenta[d]thiazolyl,
4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzo[d]thiazolyl, 5,6-dihydro-4H-pyrrolo[3,4-d]thiazolyl ,
4,5,6,7-tetrahydrothiazolo[5,4-c]pyridinyl, indolin-2-one, indolin-3-one, isoindolin-1-one,
1,2-dihydroindazol-3-one, 1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2(3H)-one, benzofuran-2(3H)-one,
benzofuran-3(2H)-one, isobenzofuran-1 (3H)-one, benzo[c]isoxazol-3(1 H)-one,
benzo[d]isoxazol-3(2H)-one, benzo[d]oxazol-2(3H)-one, benzo[b]thiophen-2(3H)-one,
benzo[b]thiophen-3(2H)-one, benzo[c]thiophen-1(3H)-one, benzo[c]isothiazol-3(1H)-one,
benzo[d]isothiazol-3(2H)-one, benzo[d]thiazol-2(3H)-one,
4,5-dihydropyrrolo[3,4-d]thiazol-6-one, 1,2-dihydropyrazolo[3,4-d]thiazol-3-one,
quinolin-4(3H)-one, quinazolin-4(3H)-one, quinazoline-2,4(1 H,3H)-dione,
quinoxalin-2(1 H)-one, quinoxaline-2,3(1 H,4H)-dione, cinnolin-4(3H)-one, pyridin-2(1 H)-one,
pyrimidin-2(1H)-one, pyrimidin-4(3H)-one, pyridazin-3(2H)-one,
1H-pyrrolo[3,2-b]pyridin-2(3H)-one, 1H-pyrrolo[3,2-c]pyridin-2(3H)-one,
1H-pyrrolo[2,3-c]pyridin-2(3H)-one, 1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridin-2(3H)-one,
1,2-dihydropyrazolo[3,4-d]thiazol-3-one and 4,5-dihydropyrrolo[3,4-d]thiazol-6-one. As
discussed herein, whether each ring is considered an aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl,
cycloalkenyl, heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl group is determined by the atom
through which the moiety is bound to the parent structure.
[0055]    "Isomers" are different compounds that have the same molecular formula.
"Stereoisomers" are isomers that differ only in the way the atoms are arranged in space.
"Enantiomers" are a pair of stereoisomers that are non-superimposable mirror images of
each other. A 1:1 mixture of a pair of enantiomers is a "racemic" mixture. The term "(.±.)" is
used to designate a racemic mixture where appropriate. "Diastereoisomers" are
stereoisomers that have at least two asymmetric atoms, but which are not mirror-images of
each other. The absolute stereochemistry is specified according to the Cahn-Ingold-Prelog
R-S system. When a compound is a pure enantiomer the stereochemistry at each chiral
                                               -14-

carbon can be specified by either R or S. Resolved compounds whose absolute
configuration is unknown can be designated (+) or (-) depending on the direction (dextro- or
levorotatory) which they rotate plane polarized light at the wavelength of the sodium D line.
Certain of the compounds described herein contain one or more asymmetric centers and
can thus give rise to enantiomers, diastereomers, and other stereoisomeric forms that can
be defined, in terms of absolute stereochemistry, as (R)- or (S)-. The present invention is
meant to include all such possible isomers, including racemic mixtures, optically pure forms
and intermediate mixtures. Optically active (R)- and (S)- isomers can be prepared using
chiral synthons or chiral reagents, or resolved using conventional techniques. When the
compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds or other centers of geometric
asymmetry, and unless specified otherwise, it is intended that the compounds include both
E and Z geometric isomers.
[0056]    The stereochemistry depicted in the structures of cyclic meso compounds is not
absolute; rather the stereochemistry is intended to indicate the positioning of the
substituents relative to one another, e.g., cis or trans. For example,
                  F       N
             N
             N               F
is intended to designate a compound wherein the fluorine and pyridyl substituents on the
cyclobutyl ring are in a cis configuration to one another, while
                  F'Q
                 NH
             NF
is intended to designate a compound wherein the fluorine and pyridyl substituents on the
cyclobutyl ring are in a trans configuration to one another.
[0057]    When a compound can exist as one or more meso isomers, all possible meso
isomers are intended to be included. For example, the compound
{[3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-ylamine is intended to include
                                               -15-

both cis and trans meso isomers:
                 F                          FXQ
                  NH                     \>NH
             N              F and,      N      I      F
and mixtures thereof. Unless otherwise indicated, compounds described herein include all
possible meso isomers and mixtures thereof.
[0058]    "Tautomers" are structurally distinct isomers that interconvert by tautomerization.
"Tautomerization" is a form of isomerization and includes prototropic or proton-shift
tautomerization, which is considered a subset of acid-base chemistry. "Prototropic
tautomerization" or "proton-shift tautomerization" involves the migration of a proton
accompanied by changes in bond order, often the interchange of a single bond with an
adjacent double bond. Where tautomerization is possible (e.g. in solution), a chemical
equilibrium of tautomers can be reached. An example of tautomerization is keto-enol
tautomerization. A specific example of keto-enol tautomerization is the interconverision of
pentane-2,4-dione and 4-hydroxypent-3-en-2-one tautomers. Another example of
tautomerization is phenol-keto tautomerization. A specific example of phenol-keto
tautomerization is the interconverision of pyridin-4-ol and pyridin-4(1 H)-one tautomers.
Compounds of certain of the disclosed formulas are tautomeric.
[0059]    A leaving group or atom is any group or atom that will, under the reaction
conditions, cleave from the starting material, thus promoting reaction at a specified site.
Suitable examples of such groups include, but are not limited to, halogen atoms, mesyloxy,
p-nitrobenzensulphonyloxy and tosyloxy groups.
[0060]    Protecting group has the meaning conventionally associated with it in organic
synthesis, i.e. a group that selectively blocks one or more reactive sites in a multifunctional
compound such that a chemical reaction can be carried out selectively on another
unprotected reactive site and such that the group can readily be removed after the selective
reaction is complete. A variety of protecting groups are disclosed, for example, in T.H.
Greene and P. G. M. Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, Third Edition, John
Wiley & Sons, New York (1999). For example, a hydroxy protected form is where at least
                                                -16-

one of the hydroxy groups present in a compound is protected with a hydroxy protecting
group. Likewise, amines and other reactive groups may similarly be protected.
[0061]     The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" or "pharmaceutically acceptable
excipient" includes any and all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and
antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such
media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except
insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active ingredient, its use
in the therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients can also
be incorporated into the compositions.
[0062]     The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to salts that retain the biological
effectiveness and properties of the compounds described herein and, which are not
biologically or otherwise undesirable. In many cases, the compounds described herein are
capable of forming acid and/or base salts by virtue of the presence of amino and/or carboxyl
groups or groups similar thereto. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts can be
formed with inorganic acids and organic acids. Inorganic acids from which salts can be
derived include, for example, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid,
phosphoric acid, and the like. Organic acids from which salts can be derived include, for
example, acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid, maleic acid,
malonic acid, succinic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, cinnamic
acid, mandelic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid,
salicylic acid, and the like. Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts can be formed
with inorganic and organic bases. Inorganic bases from which salts can be derived include,
for example, sodium, potassium, lithium, ammonium, calcium, magnesium, iron, zinc,
copper, manganese, aluminum, and the like. Organic bases from which salts can be
derived include, for example, primary, secondary, and tertiary amines, substituted amines
including naturally occurring substituted amines, cyclic amines, basic ion exchange resins,
and the like, specifically such as isopropylamine, trimethylamine, diethylamine,
triethylamine, tripropylamine, and ethanolamine. In some embodiments, the
pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt is chosen from ammonium, potassium,
sodium, calcium, and magnesium salts.
[0063]     The term "solvate" refers to a compound (e.g., a compound selected from Formula
A or I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) in physical association with one or
                                               -17-

more molecules of a pharmaceutically acceptable solvent. It will be understood that "a
compound of Formula X" encompass the compound of Formula X, and solvates of those
compounds, as well as mixtures thereof.
[0064]    A "chelate" is formed by the coordination of a compound to a metal ion at two (or
more) points. The term "compound" is intended to include chelates of compounds.
Similarly, "salts" includes chelates of salts and "solvates" includes chelates of solvates.
[0065]    A "non-covalent complex" is formed by the interaction of a compound and another
molecule wherein a covalent bond is not formed between the compound and the molecule.
For example, complexation can occur through van der Waals interactions, hydrogen
bonding, and electrostatic interactions (also called ionic bonding). Such non-covalent
complexes are included in the term "compound".
[0066]    The term "prodrug" refers to a substance administered in an inactive or less active
form that is then transformed (e.g., by metabolic processing of the prodrug in the body) into
an active compound. The rationale behind administering a prodrug is to optimize
absorption, distribution, metabolism, and/or excretion of the drug. Prodrugs may be
obtained by making a derivative of an active compound (e.g., a compound of Formula A or
another compound described herein) that will undergo a transformation under the conditions
of use (e.g., within the body) to form the active compound. The transformation of the
prodrug to the active compound may proceed spontaneously (e.g., by way of a hydrolysis
reaction) or it can be catalyzed or induced by another agent (e.g., an enzyme, light, acid or
base, and/or temperature). The agent may be endogenous to the conditions of use (e.g.,
an enzyme present in the cells to which the prodrug is administered, or the acidic conditions
of the stomach) or the agent may be supplied exogenously. Prodrugs can be obtained by
converting one or more functional groups in the active compound into another functional
group, which is then converted back to the original functional group when administered to
the body. For example, a hydroxyl functional group can be converted to a sulfonate,
phosphate, ester or carbonate group, which in turn can be hydrolyzed in vivo back to the
hydroxyl group. Similarly, an amino functional group can be converted, for example, into an
amide, carbamate, imine, urea, phosphenyl, phosphoryl or sulfenyl functional group, which
can be hydrolyzed in vivo back to the amino group. A carboxyl functional group can be
converted, for example, into an ester (including silyl esters and thioesters), amide or
hydrazide functional group, which can be hydrolyzed in vivo back to the carboxyl group.
                                                -18-

Examples of prodrugs include, but are not limited to, phosphate, acetate, formate and
benzoate derivatives of functional groups (such as alcohol or amine groups) present in the
compounds of Formula A and other compounds described herein.
[0067]    The compounds described herein can be enriched isotopic forms, e.g., enriched in
the content of 2 H, 3 H,11 C, 13 and/or 14C.  In some embodiments, the compound contains
at least one deuterium atom. Such deuterated forms can be made, for example, by the
procedure described in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,846,514 and 6,334,997. Such deuterated
compounds may improve the efficacy and increase the duration of action of compounds
described herein. Deuterium substituted compounds can be synthesized using various
methods, such as those described in: Dean, D., Recent Advances in the Synthesis and
Applications of Radiolabeled Compounds for Drug Discovery and Development, Curr.
Pharm. Des., 2000; 6(10); Kabalka, G. et al., The Synthesis of Radiolabeled Compounds
via Organometallic Intermediates, Tetrahedron, 1989, 45(21), 6601-21; and Evans, E.,
Synthesis of radiolabeled compounds, J. Radioanal. Chem., 1981, 64(1-2), 9-32.
[0068]    The terms "substituted" alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heterocycloalkyl, and heteroaryl,
unless otherwise expressly defined, refer respectively to alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl,
heterocycloalkyl, and heteroaryl wherein one or more (such as up to 5, for example, up to 3)
hydrogen atoms are replaced by a substituent independently chosen from:
        -Ra, -OR , optionally substituted amino (including -NRcCOR , -NRcCO 2Ra
-NRcCONRbRc, -NRbC(NRc)NRbRc, -NRbC(NCN)NRbRc, and -NRcSO 2 Ra), halo, cyano, nitro,
oxo (as a substitutent for cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, and heteroaryl), optionally substituted
acyl (such as -CORb), optionally substituted alkoxycarbonyl (such as -CO 2 Rb),
aminocarbonyl (such as -CONR R), -OCORb, -OCO 2 Ra, -OCONRbRc, -OCONRbRc,
-OP(O)(ORb)ORc, sulfanyl (such as SRb), sulfinyl (such as -SORa), and sulfonyl (such as
-SO 2 Ra and -SO 2NRbRc%
        where
        Ra is chosen from optionally substituted C1-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl,
optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted alkenyl, optionally substituted
alkynyl, optionally substituted aryl, and optionally substituted heteroaryl;
        Rb is chosen from hydrogen, optionally substituted C1-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted
cycloalkyl, optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, and optionally
substituted heteroaryl; and
                                                -19-

         R' is independently chosen from hydrogen and optionally substituted C1-C4 alkyl; or
         Rb and Rc, and the nitrogen to which they are attached, form an optionally substituted
heterocycloalkyl group; and
         where each optionally substituted group is unsubstituted or independently substituted
with one or more, such as one, two, or three, substituents independently selected from
C1-C4   alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aryl-C 1 -C4 alkyl-, heteroaryl-C 1 -C4 alkyl-, C1-C4 haloalkyl,
-OC1-C4 alkyl, -OC1-C4 alkylphenyl, -C1-C4 alkyl-OH, -OC1-C4 haloalkyl, halo, -OH, -NH2 ,
-C1-C4   alkyl-NH 2, -N(C1 -C4 alkyl)(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -NH(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -N(C1 -C4 alkyl)(C 1 -C4
alkylphenyl), -NH(C 1 -C4 alkylphenyl), cyano, nitro, oxo (as a substitutent for cycloalkyl or
heterocycloalkyl), -C0 2 H, -C(O)OC1-C4 alkyl, -CON(C 1 -C4 alkyl)(C1 -C4 alkyl), -CONH(C 1 -C4
alkyl), -CONH 2, -NHC(O)(C 1 -C4 alkyl), -NHC(O)(phenyl), -N(C1 -C4 alkyl)C(O)(C 1 -C4 alkyl),
-N(C1 -C4 alkyl)C(O)(phenyl), -C(O)C1-C4 alkyl, -C(O)C1-C4 alkylphenyl, -C(O)C1-C4
haloalkyl, -OC(O)C1-C4 alkyl, -S0 2(C1 -C4 alkyl), -S0 2 (phenyl), -S0 2 (C1 -C 4 haloalkyl),
-S0 2 NH 2, -SO 2 NH(C 1 -C 4 alkyl), -SO 2 NH(phenyl), -NHSO 2 (C1 -C4 alkyl), -NHSO 2(phenyl),
and -NHSO 2(C1 -C 4 haloalkyl).
[0069]     The term "sulfanyl" refers to the groups: -S-(optionally substituted alkyl),
-S-(optionally substituted cycloalkyl), -S-(optionally substituted aryl), -S-(optionally
substituted heteroaryl), and -S-(optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl).
[0070]     The term "sulfinyl" refers to the groups: -S(O)-H, -S(O)-(optionally substituted
alkyl), -S(O)-(optionally substituted cycloalkyl), -S(O)-(optionally substituted amino),
-S(O)-(optionally substituted aryl), -S(O)-(optionally substituted heteroaryl), and
-S(O)-(optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl).
[0071]     The term "sulfonyl" refers to the groups: -S(0 2 )-H, -S(0 2)-(optionally substituted
alkyl), -S(0 2)-(optionally substituted cycloalkyl), -S(0 2)-(optionally substituted amino),
-S(0 2)-(optionally substituted aryl), -S(0 2)-(optionally substituted heteroaryl), and
-S(0 2)-(optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl).
[0072]     The term "active agent" is used to indicate a compound that has biological activity.
In some embodiments, an "active agent" is a compound having therapeutic utility. In some
embodiments, the compound enhances at least one aspect of skeletal muscle function or
activity, such as power output, skeletal muscle force, skeletal muscle endurance, oxygen
consumption, efficiency, and/or calcium sensitivity.
                                                    -20-

[0073]    Compounds also include crystalline and amorphous forms of those compounds,
including, for example, polymorphs, pseudopolymorphs, solvates, hydrates, unsolvated
polymorphs (including anhydrates), conformational polymorphs, and amorphous forms of
the compounds, as well as mixtures thereof. "Crystalline form," "polymorph," and "novel
form" may be used interchangeably herein, and are meant to include all crystalline and
amorphous forms of the compound, including, for example, polymorphs,
pseudopolymorphs, solvates, hydrates, unsolvated polymorphs (including anhydrates),
conformational polymorphs, and amorphous forms, as well as mixtures thereof, unless a
particular crystalline or amorphous form is referred to.
[0074]    Chemical entities include, but are not limited to, compounds of the disclosed
formulas, and all pharmaceutically acceptable forms thereof. Pharmaceutically acceptable
forms of the compounds recited herein include pharmaceutically acceptable salts, chelates,
non-covalent complexes, prodrugs, and mixtures thereof. In certain embodiments, the
compounds described herein are in the form of pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Hence,
the terms "chemical entity" and "chemical entities" also encompass pharmaceutically
acceptable salts, chelates, non-covalent complexes, prodrugs, and mixtures.
[0075]    The terms "patient" and "subject" refer to an animal, such as a mammal bird or
fish. In some embodiments, the patient or subject is a mammal. Mammals include, for
example, mice, rats, dogs, cats, pigs, sheep, horses, cows and humans. In some
embodiments, the patient or subject is a human, for example a human that has been or will
be the object of treatment, observation or experiment. The compounds, compositions and
methods described herein can be useful in both human therapy and veterinary applications.
[0076]    As used herein, "skeletal muscle" includes skeletal muscle tissue as well as
components thereof, such as skeletal muscle fibers, the myofibrils comprising the skeletal
muscle fibers, the skeletal sarcomere which comprises the myofibrils, and the various
components of the skeletal sarcomere described herein, including skeletal myosin, actin,
tropomyosin, troponin C, troponin I, troponin T and fragments and isoforms thereof. In
some embodiments, "skeletal muscle" includes fast skeletal muscle tissue as well as
components thereof, such as fast skeletal muscle fibers, the myofibrils comprising the fast
skeletal muscle fibers, the fast skeletal sarcomere which comprises the myofibrils, and the
various components of the fast skeletal sarcomere described herein, including fast skeletal
myosin, actin, tropomyosin, troponin C, troponin I, troponin T and fragments and isoforms
                                               -21-

thereof. Skeletal muscle does not include cardiac muscle or a combination of sarcomeric
components that occurs in such combination in its entirety in cardiac muscle.
[0077]     As used herein, the term "therapeutic" refers to the ability to modulate the
contractility of fast skeletal muscle. As used herein, "modulation" (and related terms, such
as "modulate", "modulated", "modulating") refers to a change in function or efficiency of one
or more components of the fast skeletal muscle sarcomere, including myosin, actin,
tropomyosin, troponin C, troponin I, and troponin T from fast skeletal muscle, including
fragments and isoforms thereof, as a direct or indirect response to the presence of a
compound described herein, relative to the activity of the fast skeletal sarcomere in the
absence of the compound. The change may be an increase in activity (potentiation) or a
decrease in activity (inhibition), and may be due to the direct interaction of the compound
with the sarcomere, or due to the interaction of the compound with one or more other
factors that in turn affect the sarcomere or one or more of its components. In some
embodiments, modulation is a potentiation of function or efficiency of one or more
components of the fast skeletal muscle sarcomere, including myosin, actin, tropomyosin,
troponin C, troponin I, and troponin T from fast skeletal muscle, including fragments and
isoforms thereof. Modulation may be mediated by any mechanism and at any physiological
level, for example, through sensitization of the fast skeletal sarcomere to contraction at
lower Ca2 , concentrations. As used herein, "efficiency" or "muscle efficiency" means the
ratio of mechanical work output to the total metabolic cost.
[0078]     The term "therapeutically effective amount" or "effective amount" refers to that
amount of a compound selected from the disclosed formulas that is sufficient to effect
treatment, as defined below, when administered to a mammal in need of such treatment.
The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending upon the subject and disease
condition being treated, the weight and age of the subject, the severity of the disease
condition, the particular compound selected from the disclosed formulas, the dosing
regimen to be followed, timing of administration, the manner of administration and the like,
all of which can readily be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art.
[0079]     "Treatment" or "treating" means any treatment of a disease in a patient, including:
     (a)     preventing the disease, that is, causing the clinical symptoms of the disease not
             to develop;
     (b)     inhibiting the disease;
                                                -22-

    (c)      slowing or arresting the development of clinical symptoms; and/or
    (d)       relieving the disease, that is, causing the regression of clinical symptoms.
[0080]    As used herein, "power output" of a muscle means work/cycle time and may be
scaled up from PoLo/cycle time units based on the properties of the muscle. Power output
may be modulated by changing, for example, activating parameters during cyclical length
changes, including timing of activation (phase of activation) and the period of activation
(duty cycle.)
[0081]     "ATPase" refers to an enzyme that hydrolyzes ATP. ATPases include proteins
comprising molecular motors such as the myosins.
[0082]    As used herein, "selective binding" or "selectively binding" refers to preferential
binding to a target protein in one type of muscle or muscle fiber as opposed to other types.
For example, a compound selectively binds to fast skeletal troponin C if the compound
preferentially binds troponin C in the troponin complex of a fast skeletal muscle fiber or
sarcomere in comparison with troponin C in the troponin complex of a slow muscle fiber or
sarcomere or with troponin C in the troponin complex of a cardiac sarcomere.
[0083]     Provided are skeletal muscle troponin activators that can effectively improve the
function of diaphragm, in particular diaphragm with dysfunction. Dysfunction of the
diaphragm can include a partial loss of the ability to generate pressure (weakness) and a
complete loss of diaphragmatic function (paralysis). Such improvement is particularly
useful, clinically, when the diaphragm is under stress or suffering dysfunction, such as in the
face of neuromuscular disorders and/or conditions marked by muscle weakness.
[0084]     It is contemplated that skeletal muscle troponin activators, in particular those
disclosed herein, selectively sensitize fast skeletal muscle in the diaphragm to calcium by
binding to its troponin complex. By increasing the calcium sensitivity of the
troponin-tropomyosin regulatory complex, which is the calcium sensor within the sarcomere
that regulates the actin-myosin force-generating interaction, the skeletal muscle troponin
activators improve muscle force generation. As a consequence of their activity on the
troponin-tropomyosin complex, the skeletal muscle troponin activators amplify the response
of muscle to neuromuscular input and also decrease the fatigability of muscle.
[0085]     Provided are compositions and methods for improving diaphragm function. In
some embodiments, the methods entail administering to a patient or contacting a
diaphragm skeletal muscle fiber with an effective amount of a skeletal muscle troponin
                                                  -23-

activator. Compositions and methods are also provided for increasing the function, activity,
efficiency, sensitivity to calcium, or time to fatigue of skeletal muscle in the diaphragm. In
some embodiments, the skeletal muscle in the diaphragm is fast skeletal muscle.
[0086]       In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator is administered to a
patient in need of improving diaphragm function. In some embodiments, the patient suffers
from diaphragm dysfunction. In some embodiments, the patient suffers from diaphragmatic
weakness or paralysis. In some embodiments, the patient suffers from unilateral or bilateral
diaphragmatic weakness or paralysis.
[0087]       Many diseases and conditions are known to cause or coexist with diaphragm
dysfunction, or diaphragm weakness or paralysis. Non-limiting examples of such diseases
and conditions include multiple sclerosis, stroke, Arnold-Chiari malformation, quadriplegia,
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), poliomyelitis, spinal muscular atrophy (SMA),
syringomyelia, Guillain-Barr6 syndrome, tumor compression, neuralgic neuropathy,
critical-illness polyneuropathy, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy,
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, idiopathic, hyperinflation including chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma, myasthenia gravis, Lambert-Eaton syndrome,
botulism, organophosphate exposure, drug use, muscular dystrophies (including Duchenne
muscular dystrophy, Becker muscular dystrophy, limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, congenital
muscular dystrophy, facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy, myotonic muscular
dystrophy, oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy, distal muscular dystrophy, and Emery
Dreifuss muscular dystrophy), myositis (infectious, inflammatory, metabolic), acid maltase
deficiency, glucocorticoids, and disuse atrophy.
[0088]       Provided are methods of treating patients suffering from diaphragm dysfunction
caused by, or also suffering from, any one or more of these diseases or conditions.
[0089]       In some embodiments, the patient suffers from a disease or condition selected
from sleep-disordered breathing, ventilator-induced diaphragmatic weakness or atrophy,
steroid-induced diaphragmatic atrophy, hemidiaphragm paralysis, fetal hydrops, pleural
effusion, botulinum poisoning, organophosphate poisoning, Guillain-Barre syndrome,
phrenic nerve dysfunction and asthma.
[0090]       In some embodiments, the patient suffers from diaphragmatic atrophy.
Diaphragmatic atrophy, for instance, can be caused by disuse. In some embodiments, the
patient is in use of mechanical ventilation. The combination of complete diaphragm
                                                 -24-

inactivity and mechanical ventilation can elicit disuse atrophy of myofibers. It is
contemplated that compounds described herein can improve diaphragm function or treat or
prevent diaphragmatic atrophy in patients undergoing a mechanical ventilation treatment.
[0091]     Exercise in patients with congestive heart failure is often limited by fatigue and
shortness of breath (dyspnea). Importantly, fast (type 2) skeletal muscle fibers appear to
atrophy in the diaphragm (Howell et al. J Appl Physiol. 1995 Aug;79(2):389-97). An
increase in diaphragmatic function caused by administration of fast skeletal troponin
activators as described herein will increase respiratory function and improve symptoms of
dyspnea and increase capacity for physical activity in heart failure patients. In some
embodiments, the method comprises improving diaphragm function of a heart failure patient
by administering a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator.
[0092]     A primary cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with ALS is due to
respiratory failure. By improving diaphragmatic and respiratory function by administration of
fast skeletal troponin activators, ALS patient quality of life will be improved. In some
embodiments, the method comprises improving diaphragm function of a patient suffering
from ALS by administering a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator.
[0093]     Muscular Dystrophy is a group of muscle diseases that weaken the
musculoskeletal system and hamper locomotion. Muscular dystrophies are characterized
by progressive skeletal muscle weakness, defects in muscle proteins, and the death of
muscle cells and tissue. Types of muscular dystrophies include Duchenne muscular
dystrophy, Becker muscular dystrophy, limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, congenital muscular
dystrophy, facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy, myotonic muscular dystrophy,
oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy, distal muscular dystrophy, and Emery-Dreifuss
muscular dystrophy. In some embodiments the method comprises improving diaphragm
function of a patient suffering from muscular dystrophy by administering a fast skeletal
muscle troponin activator. In some embodiments, the muscular dystrophy is selected from
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Becker muscular dystrophy, limb-girdle muscular dystrophy,
congenital muscular dystrophy, facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy, myotonic
muscular dystrophy, oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy, distal muscular dystrophy, and
Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy.
[0094]     The methods described herein, in some embodiments, can also benefit healthy
individuals. For instance, individuals that undertake intense physical activities or individuals
                                               -25-

in an environment with a reduced partial pressure of oxygen in the air (e.g., at high
elevation), can also benefit from treatment with a skeletal muscle troponin activator.
[0095]     In some embodiments, in addition to or instead of improving diaphragm function in
a subject, administration of the skeletal muscle troponin activator improves the function of
one or more other muscles involved in respiration, such as external intercostal muscle or
internal intercostal muscle.
[0096]     Patients in need to improving diaphragm function can be identified with methods
known in the art. Chest radiographs, for instance, may reveal elevated hemidiaphragms
and basal subsegmental atelectasis. Further, fluoroscopy of the diaphragm has been
extensively used to evaluate diaphragmatic function.
[0097]     Pulmonary-function tests, especially measurements of upright and supine vital
capacity, are noninvasive tests of diaphragmatic function. With unilateral diaphragmatic
paralysis, total lung capacity may be mildly restricted (70 to 79% of the predicted value). In
severe diaphragmatic weakness or bilateral diaphragmatic paralysis, there is typically
moderate-to-severe restriction (30 to 50% of the predicted value for total lung capacity). In
both unilateral and bilateral diaphragmatic paralysis, the restrictive dysfunction becomes
more severe when the patient is in the supine position. A decrease in vital capacity of 30 to
50% when the patient is supine supports the diagnosis of bilateral diaphragmatic paralysis,
whereas a decrease in vital capacity of 10 to 30% of the vital capacity when the patient is
seated may be seen with mild diaphragmatic weakness or unilateral diaphragmatic
paralysis. In some embodiments, the patient has unilateral diaphragmatic paralysis. In
some embodiments, the patient has severe diaphragmatic weakness or bilateral
diaphragmatic paralysis.
[0098]     In some embodiments, the patient has a forced vital capacity (FVC) lower than
about 75%, or alternatively lower than about 70%, 65%, 60%, 55%, 50%, 45%, 40%, 35%,
30%, 25% or 20% of predicted of healthy individual in similar conditions. In some
embodiments, the patient shows evidence of increased work of breathing indicative of
reduced diaphragm function, e.g., significant tachypnea, intercostal retractions, or other
physical signs of respiratory distress thought to be.
[0099]    Two additional measures of diaphragmatic function are maximal static inspiratory
pressure and sniff nasal inspiratory pressure. In some embodiments, the patient has a
maximal static inspiratory pressure or sniff nasal inspiratory pressure that is lower than
                                              -26-

about 75%, or alternatively lower than about 70%, 65%, 60%, 55%, 50%, 45%, 40%, 35%,
30%, 25% or 20% of predicted of healthy individual in similar conditions.
[0100]    Direct measures of diaphragmatic function include invasive methods such as
transdiaphragmatic pressure [Pdi] or noninvasive means such as ultrasonography. Here, a
sniff Pdi or Pdi max greater than 80 cm of water in men and greater than 70 cm of water in
women rules out clinically significant diaphragmatic weakness. A twitch Pdi greater than 10
cm of water with unilateral phrenic-nerve stimulation or greater than 20 cm of water with
bilateral phrenic-nerve stimulation also rules out clinically significant weakness.
[0101]    In some embodiments, the patient is a male patient having a sniff Pdi or Pdi max
lower than about 80 cm of water, or alternatively lower than about 75 cm, 70 cm, 65 cm, 60
cm, 55 cm, 50 cm, 45 cm, 40 cm, 35 cm, 30 cm, or 25 cm of water. In some embodiments,
the patient is a female patient having a sniff Pdi or Pdi max lower than about 70 cm of
water, or alternatively lower than about 65 cm, 60 cm, 55 cm, 50 cm, 45 cm, 40 cm, 35 cm,
30 cm, 25 cm, or 20 cm of water. In some embodiments, the patient has a twitch Pdi lower
than about 10 cm, or alternatively lower than about 9 cm, 8 cm, 7 cm, 6 cm, 5 cm, 4 cm, 3
cm, 2 cm or 1 cm of water with unilateral phrenic-nerve stimulation. In some embodiments,
the patient has a twitch Pdi lower than about 20 cm, or alternatively lower than about 19 cm,
18cm, 17cm, 16cm, 15cm, 14cm, 13cm, 12cm, 11 cm, 10cm, 9cm, 8cm, 7cm, 6cm,
5 cm, 4 cm, 3 cm, 2 cm or 1 cm of water with bilateral phrenic-nerve stimulation.
[0102]    In some embodiments, the methods for improving diaphragm function described
herein further comprises administering to the patient a second therapeutic agent suitable for
improving diaphragm function. Such second therapeutic agents, when employed in
combination with the compounds and compositions described herein, may be used, for
example, in those amounts indicated in the Physicians' Desk Reference (PDR) or as
otherwise determined by one of ordinary skill in the art.
[0103]    In some embodiments, a skeletal muscle troponin activate is a chemical entity
chosen from compounds of Formula A and compounds of Formula B:
                  R       NN               H           R         N
                                          OH                                  -0
                  R            N                       R         N
                                    R2                                     R2
                         Formula A                             Formula B
                                               -27-

and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein
            R1 and R4 are independently selected from hydrogen, halo, hydroxy, optionally
substituted acyl, optionally substituted alkyl, optionally substituted amino, optionally
substituted alkenyl, optionally substituted alkynyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally
substituted heteroaryl, optionally substituted alkoxy, optionally substituted aminocarbonyl,
sulfonyl, sulfanyl, sulfinyl, carboxy, optionally substituted alkoxycarbonyl, and cyano; and in
the alternative, R4 and R1, taken together with any intervening atoms, form a fused ring
system selected from optionally substituted fused aryl, optionally substituted fused
heteroaryl, optionally substituted fused cycloalkyl, and optionally substituted fused
heterocycloalkyl; and
            R2 is is selected from optionally substituted alkyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl,
optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, and optionally substituted
heterocycloalkyl;
provided that
            R1 is not hex-1-enyl; and further provided that
the compound of Formula A or the compound of Formula B is not
            (S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            1,5,6-trimethyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            1-methyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            6-bromo-1 -(3-nitrobenzyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            5-(hydroxymethyl)-1,6-dimethyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one; or
            1-(piperidin-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one.
[0104]    In some embodiments, R2 is selected from optionally substituted lower alkyl,
optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted alkoxy, and optionally substituted
heterocycloalkyl.
[0105]    In some embodiments, R2 is selected from heterocycloalkyl, cycloalkyl, lower alkyl,
and lower alkyl substituted with optionally substituted phenyl, hydroxy, optionally substituted
alkoxy, optionally substituted amino and optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl.
[0106]    In some embodiments, R2 is selected from 1-(R)-phenylethyl, 1-(S)-phenylethyl,
benzyl, 3-pentyl, 4-heptyl, 4-methyl-1-morpholinopentan-2-y isobutyl, cyclohexyl,
cyclopropyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, isopropyl, 1-hydroxybutan-2-yl, tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl,
1-methoxybutan-2-yl, 1-aminobutan-2-yl, and 1-morpholinobutan-2-yl.
                                                 -28-

[0107]     In some embodiments, R1 is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, optionally
substituted lower alkyl, optionally substituted amino, optionally substituted pyrazolyl,
optionally substituted alkenyl, optionally substituted alkynyl, optionally substituted lower
alkoxy, and -S-(optionally substituted lower alkyl).
[0108]     In some embodiments, R1 is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, optionally
substituted lower alkyl, dialkylamino, amino substituted with an alkyl group and with a group
chosen from acyl, aminocarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, and sulfonyl; optionally substituted
pyrazolyl, optionally substituted alkenyl, optionally substituted alkynyl, optionally substituted
lower alkoxy, and -S-(optionally substituted lower alkyl).
[0109]     In some embodiments, R1 is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
lower alkoxy, optionally substituted amino, pyrazolyl substituted with lower alkyl,
-S-(optionally substituted lower alkyl), lower alkyl, and lower alkyl substituted with halo.
[0110]     In some embodiments, R1 is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
lower alkoxy, dialkylamino, amino substituted with an alkyl group and with a group chosen
from acyl, aminocarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, and sulfonyl, pyrazolyl substituted with lower
alkyl, -S-(optionally substituted lower alkyl), lower alkyl, and lower alkyl substituted with halo.
[0111]     In some embodiments, R1 is selected from hydrogen, bromo, chloro, fluoro,
methyl, ethyl, propyl, hexenyl, butenyl, propenyl, vinyl, ethynyl, methoxy, ethoxy,
methylsulfanyl, dimethylamino, and methyl substituted with up to three fluoro groups.
[0112]     In some embodiments, R1 is selected from hydrogen, bromo, chloro, fluoro,
methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, dimethylamino, isobuten-1-yl, (Z)-propen-1-yl,
(E)-propen-1-yl, propen-2-yl, vinyl, ethynyl, methoxy, ethoxy, methylsulfanyl, and
trifluoromethyl.
[0113]     In some embodiments, R4 is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, optionally
substituted alkyl, alkenyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted
aminocarbonyl, sulfanyl, optionally substituted amino, and optionally substituted
alkoxycarbonyl.
[0114]     In some embodiments, R4 is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, optionally
substituted lower alkyl, lower alkenyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted
aminocarbonyl, sulfanyl, optionally substituted amino, and optionally substituted lower
alkoxycarbonyl.
                                                 -29-

[0115]    In some embodiments, R4 is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, lower alkyl, lower
alkenyl, cycloalkyl, optionally substituted aminocarbonyl, sulfanyl, and lower alkoxycarbonyl.
[0116]    In some embodiments, R4 is selected from hydrogen, bromo, chloro, fluoro, acetyl,
methyl, ethyl, vinyl, cyclohexen-1-yl, methylcarbamoyl, dimethylcarbamoyl, methylsulfanyl,
and methoxycarbonyl.
[0117]    In some embodiments, R4 is hydrogen.
[0118]    In some embodiments, R4 and R1, taken together with any intervening atoms, form
a fused ring system selected from optionally substituted fused aryl, optionally substituted
fused cycloalkyl, and optionally substituted fused heterocycloalkyl.
[0119]    In some embodiments, R4 and R1 are taken together to form an optionally
substituted benzo group.
[0120]    In some embodiments, R4 and R1 are taken together to form a benzo group.
[0121]    In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a chemical entity
selected from compounds of Formula A and compounds of Formula B:
        R           N                          R         N          H
                                       OH                                 O
               R, N           NN                                    N
                 R                R2            RiR2
                 Formula A                            Formula B
and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein:
        R1 is alkenyl or alkynyl;
        R4 is hydrogen; and
        R2 is selected from 3-pentyl, 4-heptyl, 4-methyl-1-morpholinopentan-2-y isobutyl,
cyclohexyl, cyclopropyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, isopropyl, 1-hydroxybutan-2yl,
tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl, 1-methoxybutan-2-yl, 1-aminobutan-2-yl, and
1-morpholinobutan-2-yl;
        provided that R1 is not hex-1 -enyl.
[0122]    In some embodiments, the compound of Formula A is chosen from:
            1-((1 R)-1 -methyl-2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)-6-bromoimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            1-(ethyl propyl)-6-ethynyli midazo[4,5-b]pyrazi n-2-ol;
            1-(ethylpropyl)-6-methoxyimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
                                                -30-

1-(1,1 -dimethyl-2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)-6-bromoimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-(1 H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(ethylpropyl)-6-(trifluoromethyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-[(1 R)-1 -(morpholin-4-ylmethyl)propyl]-6-ethynylimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(ethyl propyl)-6-{2-[1 -(ethyl propyl)-2-hydroxyim idazo[4,5-e] pyrazin-6-yl]ethynyl}i
midazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-(dimethylamino)-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-ethyl-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(E)-i -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(E)-i -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(E)-i -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(E)-i -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(E)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-i -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(R)-6-(methylthio)-i -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -hydroxybutan-2-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -sec-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-(2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-6-yl)(4-methylpiperazi
n-1 -yl)methanone;
(S)-(2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-6-yl)(morpholino)meth
anone;
(S)-(2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-6-yl)(piperidin-1 -yl)met
hanone;
(S)-i -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-i -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]quinoxalin-2-ol;
(S)-i -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(piperidin-1 -ylmethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-i -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-propyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-i -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-vinyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-i -(2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-6-yl)ethanone;
(S)-2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carbonitrile;
                                      -31-

(S)-2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carboxamide;
(S)-2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carboxylic acid;
(S)-2-hydroxy-N,N-dimethyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carbo
xamide;
(S)-2-hydroxy-N-methyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carboxami
de;
(S)-6-((4-m ethyl pi perazi n-1 -yI)methyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
-2-al;
(S)-6-((dimethylamino)methyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-(2-hydroxypropan-2-y)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-(2-m ethyl pro p-1 -enyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-(methylsulfonyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-(methylthio)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-(morpholinomethyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -hydroxybutan-2-y)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-oI;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinobutan-2-y)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinopropan-2-y)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-oI;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -sec-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-oI;
(S)-6-cyclohexenyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-cyclohexyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-ethoxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-ethyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o;
(S)-6-hexyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-oI;
(S)-6-isobutyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-oI;
(S)-6-methoxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-oI;
(S)-methyl 2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-HH-i midazo [4,5-b] pyrazi ne-6-carboxyl ate;
(S)-N, N-diethyl-2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carboxa
mide;
(S)-N-benzyl-2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carboxami
de;
(S,E)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-oI;
                                        -32-

(S,Z)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S,Z)-6-(hex-2-enyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(Z)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(Z)-1 -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(Z)-1 -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(Z)-1 -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(Z)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(1 -aminobutan-2-yl)-6-bromo-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(2-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-5-yl)ethanone;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-2,6-diol;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]quinoxalin-2-ol;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-5-vinyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -ynyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(trifluoromethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-benzyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-benzyl-6-bromo-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-cyclohexyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-cyclopropyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-isopropyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
2-(6-bromo-2-hydroxy-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1 -yl)-l -morpholinobutan-1 -one;
2-(6-bromo-2-hydroxy-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1 -yl)butanoic acid;
2-(6-bromo-2-hydroxy-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1 -yl)propane-1,3-diol;
2-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxylic acid;
2-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carbonitrile;
2-hydroxy-N,N-dimethyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxamid
e;
2-hydroxy-N-methyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxamide;
5-(methylthio)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
5-bromo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
5-ethyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
                                     -33-

6-(methylsulfinyl)-1 -((S)-1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-(methylthio)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-(methylthio)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin-1 -yl)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyra
zin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(dimethylamino)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(methylamino)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -methoxybutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(2-methyl-1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(2-morpholinoethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -cyclohexyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -cyclopropyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -isopropyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -tert-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-cyclopropyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-methoxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-methyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
methyl 2-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxylate;
methyl
4-(2-(6-bromo-2-hydroxy-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1 -yl)butyl)piperazine-1 -carbox
ylate;
1-(ethylpropyl)-6-(1 -methylpyrazol-4-yl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(propylbutyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-[(1 R)-3-methyl-1 -(morpholin-4-ylmethyl)butyl]-6-bromoimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2
ol;
1-(ethyl propyl)-6-vi nyli midazo[4,5-b]pyrazi n-2-ol;
1-(ethylpropyl)-6-(1 -methylvinyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(ethylpropyl)-6-(methylethyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
                                      -34-

           6-chloro-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol; and
           6-(dimethylamino)-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol,
           or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0123]   In some embodiments, the compound of Formula B is chosen from the following
tautomers of compounds of Formula A:
           (R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           6-methoxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           6-bromo-1 -(2-methyl-1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-o
           ne;
           1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(1 H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(trifluoromethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (R)-6-ethynyl-1 -(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           6-((2-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-6-yl)ethynyl)-1 -(pentan-3
           yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           6-(dimethylamino)-i -(pentan-3-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           6-ethyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (E)-i -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (E)-i -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (E)-i -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (E)-i -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (E)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-i -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)
           one;
           (R)-6-(methylthio)-i -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -hydroxybutan-2-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (R)-6-bromo-1 -sec-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (S)-i -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           (S)-i -(1 -phenylethyl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]quinoxalin-2(3H)-one;
                                                -35-

(S)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(piperidin-1 -ylmethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one
(S)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(piperidine-1 -carbonyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-on
e;
(S)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-propyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-1-(1-h -phenthyl)-6-vinyl-d1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carbonitrile;
(S)-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxamid
e;
(S)-2-oxo-3-(1 -ph enyl ethyl) -2,3-di hydro- 1H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxylic
acid;
(S)-6-((4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl)methyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-((dimethylamino)methyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)
one;
(S)-6-(2-hydroxypropan-2-yl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-o
ne;
(S)-6-(2-methylprop-1 -enyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-on
e;
(S)-6-(4-methylpiperazine-1 -carbonyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-(methylsulfonyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-(methylthio)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)
one;
(S)-6-(morpholinomethyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-acetyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -hydroxybutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -sec-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
                                       -36-

(S)-6-cyclohexenyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-cyclohexyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-ethoxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-ethyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-hexyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-isobutyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-methoxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-methyl
2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxylate;
(S)-N,N-diethyl-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5
carboxamide;
(S)-N,N-dimethyl-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine
5-carboxamide;
(S)-N-benzyl-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-ca
rboxamide;
(S)-N-methyl-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-ca
rboxamide;
(S,E)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S,Z)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S,Z)-6-(hex-2-enyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(Z)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(Z)-1 -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(Z)-1 -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(Z)-1 -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(Z)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)
one;
1-(1 -aminobutan-2-yl)-6-bromo-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]quinoxalin-2(3H)-one;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-5-vinyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -ynyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
                                     -37-

1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(trifluoromethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-benzyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-benzyl-6-bromo-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-cyclohexyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-cyclopropyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-isopropyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
2-(6-bromo-2-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1 -yl)butanoic acid;
2-oxo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxylic acid;
2-oxo-3-(pentan-3-yl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carbonitrile;
5-(methylthio)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
5-acetyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
5-bromo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
5-ethyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-(methylsulfinyl)-1 -((S)-1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-(methylthio)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-(methylthio)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin-1 -yl)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyra
zin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)
one;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(dimethylamino)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(methylamino)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(1,3-dihydroxypropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -methoxybutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholino-1 -oxobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(2-methyl-1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-o
ne;
6-bromo-1 -(2-morpholinoethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -cyclohexyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -cyclopropyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
                                     -38-

            6-bromo-1 -isopropyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            6-bromo-1 -tert-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            6-cyclopropyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            6-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            6-methoxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            6-methyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            methyl
            2-oxo-1 -(pentan-3-y)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxylate;
            methyl
            4-(2-(6-bromo-2-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1 -yl)butyl)piperazine-1
            -carboxylate;
            N,N-dimethyl-2-oxo-1 -(pentan-3-y)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carb
            oxamide;
            N-methyl-2-oxo-1 -(pentan-3-y)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxa
            mide;
            6-(1 -methyl-1 H-pyrazol-4-yl)-i -(pentan-3-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            6-bromo-1 -(heptan-4-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            (R)-6-bromo-1 -(4-methyl-1 -morpholinopentan-2-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3
            H)-one;
            1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-vinyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -en-2-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            6-isopropyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            6-chloro-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one; and
            6-(dimethylamino)-i -(pentan-3-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one,
            or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0124]    In some embodiments, the compound of Formula A is
6-bromo-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol (Compound A) or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments, the compound of formula A is
1-(ethylpropyl)-6-ethynylimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol (Compound C) or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.
                                                 -39-

[0125]     The compounds of Formula A can be named and numbered (e.g., using
NamExpert TM available from Cheminnovation or the automatic naming feature of
ChemlDraw Ultra version 10.0 from Cambridge Soft Corporation) as described below. For
example, the compound:
                                                     -OH
                                          SN       N
i.e., the compound according to Formula A where R1 is (E)-propen-1yl, R2 is
(S)-sec-phenethyl, and R4 is H, can be named
(S,E)-1 -(1-phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1-enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol.
[0126]     Likewise the compound:
                                                      OH
                                             N     N
i.e., the compound according to Formula A where R1 is (Z)-propen-1-yl, R2 is 3-pentyl, and
R4 is H, can be named (Z)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol.
[0127]     Similarly, the compounds of Formula B can be named and numbered (e.g., using
NamExpert TM available from Cheminnovation or the automatic naming feature of
ChemlDraw Ultra version 10.0 from Cambridge Soft Corporation) as described below. For
example, the compound:
                                          SN       N
i.e., the compound according to Formula B where R1 is (E)-propen-1-yl, R2 is
(S)-sec-phenethyl, and R4 is H, can be named
(S,E)-1 -(1-phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1-enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one.
[0128]     Likewise the compound:
                                                   H
                                               -40
                                              N    N
                                              -40-

i.e., the compound according to Formula B where R1 is (Z)-propen-1-yl, R2 is 3-pentyl, and
R4 is H, can be named
(Z)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one.
 [0129]     In some embodiments, a skeletal muscle troponin activator is a compound of
Formula I:
                           R
         R2  -1xN
                 3            N~(CR
                                              8
                                                R9 )m        R7
                R3x                   N
                                       R4            R5   R6
                                 Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
         R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1_ alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRb Rc, ORa, NRbRc,       C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
         R2 is selected from C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6_10 aryl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl and NRbRc,
wherein each of the C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH2)nORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2 )nOC(O)ORa, (CH2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(O)NR bRc, (CH2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(S) Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nNRdSO 2 NRbRc, (CH2)nC(O)Ra, (CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2)nC(O)NRb Rc,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra,    (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2 )nSRa,
(CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH2 )nSO 2Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NRbRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2 )nC6 _1o aryl and
(CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nC6 _10 aryl and (CH2 )n5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
                                                 -41-

         R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRRc, ORa, NR'Rc, C61o aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
         R4 is selected from hydrogen, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbRc and SO 2 Ra;
         R5 and R6 are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen, C1_6 alkyl and
C1_6 haloalkyl;
         or alternatively, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are bound
form a group selected from C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1_6 alkyl and C1_6
haloalkyl;
         R7 is selected from C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, each optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra,
OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRbRc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR bRc, NRdC(S) Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc, NRdC(NRe)NRbRc,
NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa,
C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and
5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf
substituents;
         R8 and R9, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
halogen and C1-6 alkyl;
         X is selected from a bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH 2)pC(O)(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pO(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2 )pS(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)O(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2 )pOC(O)(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2 )pNRdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2 )pNRdSO 2 (CH 2)q-, and -(CH 2)pSO 2 NRd(CH 2)q-;
                                                 -42-

        or alternatively, X, R2 and R3 , together with the carbon atoms to which they are
bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms selected
from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally containing one or more double bonds, and
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
        Ra, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C38 cycloalkyl, C38 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_ alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8
cycloalkyl, C38 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
        Rb and Rc, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen, C1_6
alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C38 cycloalkyl, C38 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl, 5-10
membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, C(O)OR9, C(O)NR'Ri and S2R9, wherein each of the C16
alkyl, C26 alkenyl, C26 alkynyl, C38 cycloalkyl, C38 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
        Rd, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen and C1_ alkyl;
        R*, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, OH,
C1_ alkoxy,   C1_ alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
        Rf, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OR', OC(O)R,
OC(O)OR, OC(O)NR'Ri, NR'Ri, NRdC(O)R', NRdC(O)OR, NRdC(O)NR'Ri,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR'Ri, NRdC(S)R', NRdC(S)OR, NRdC(S)NR'Ri, NRdC(NRe)NR'Ri,
NRdS(O)R', NRdSO 2 R', NRdSO 2NR'R, C(O)R, C(O)OR, C(O)NR'Ri, C(S)R', C(S)OR,
C(S)NR'R, C(NRe)NR'Ri, SR', S(O)R, SO 2Rh, SO 2NR'Rj, C1_ alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_ cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1_ alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_ cycloalkyl, C3_ cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and
5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk
substituents;
                                                 -43-

        or two Rf substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon atom
to which they are both bound, form a group selected from carbonyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl and 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl;
        R9, at each occurrence, is independently selected from C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl,
phenyl, naphthyl, and C711 aralkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C1_6 alkoxy, C1_6 alkyl and C1_6 haloalkyl;
        Rh, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8
cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk substituents;
        R' and Ri, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen, C1_6
alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl, 5-10
membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, and C(O)OR9, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl,
C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN,
OH, C1_6 alkoxy, C1_6 alkyl and C1_6 haloalkyl;
        Rk, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OH, C1_6
alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), N(C1 _6 alkyl) 2, NHC(O)C 1 _6 alkyl, NHC(O)C7 1 1 aralkyl,
NHC(O)OC 1 _6 alkyl, NHC(O)OC 7 11 aralkyl, OC(O)C1-6 alkyl, OC(O)C7-11 aralkyl, OC(O)OC1-6
alkyl, OC(O)OC7-11 aralkyl, C(O)C1-6 alkyl, C(O)C7-11 aralkyl, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl, C(O)OC7-11
aralkyl, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, and C2-6 alkynyl, wherein each C1_6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, and C711 aralkyl substituent is optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3
substituents selected from OH, C1-6 alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), N(C1 _6 alkyl) 2, NHC(O)C 1 _6
alkyl, NHC(O)C7 11 aralkyl, NHC(O)OC 1 6_ alkyl, and NHC(O)OC7 1 1 aralkyl;
        or two Rk substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon atom
to which they are both bound, form a carbonyl group;
        m is 0, 1 or 2;
                                                  -44-

       n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2;
       p is 0, 1 or 2; and
       q is 0, 1 or 2.
[0130]   In some embodiments of compounds of Formula I, m is 0, i.e., a compound of
Formula II, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                         R1
       R                       N        R5   R6
             R3          N           N          R7
                            NI
                                     R4
                        Formula II
wherein R1, R2 , R3, R4 , R5 , R6 , R7 and X are as defined herein.
[0131]   In some embodiments of compounds of Formula I, m is 1, i.e., a compound of
Formula III, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                          R
       R2                       N        R8   R9
              R           N           N                R
                                      R4     Rs     R6
                        Formula III
wherein R1, R2 , R3, R4 , R , R , R , R8, R9 and X are as defined herein.
[0132]   In some embodiments, one of R5 and R6 is hydrogen and the other is C1_6 alkyl.
[0133]   In some embodiments, R5 and R6 are each independently C1_6 alkyl.
[0134]   In some embodiments, R5 and R6 are each methyl.
[0135]   In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula IV(a) or IV(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                 -45-

                         R1
         R2                     N
               R3        N           N          RI
                       Formula IV(a)
                          R1
         R2                     N      R8    R9
               R          N          N
                                     R4
                       Formula IV(b)
wherein R1, R2 , R3, R4 , R7 , R8, R9 and X are as defined herein.
[0136]     In some embodiments, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are
bound form C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3_ cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl or 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc,       C1_    alkyl and C16 haloalkyl.
[0137]     In some embodiments, R5 and R , together with the carbon to which they are
bound, form C3_ cycloalkyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected
from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR Rc,
S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
[0138]     In some embodiments, R5 and R , together with the carbon to which they are
bound, form cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl, each optionally substituted
with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl.
                                                 -46-

[0139]    In some embodiments, R5 and R , together with the carbon to which they are
bound, form cyclobutyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc,
S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1_6 haloalkyl.
[0140]    In some embodiments, R5 and R , together with the carbon to which they are
bound, form cyclobutyl substituted with one substituent selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C1_6 alkyl and C1_6 haloalkyl, wherein the substituent and R7 are in a trans
configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0141]    In some embodiments, R5 and R , together with the carbon to which they are
bound, form cyclobutyl substituted with one substituent selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C1_6 alkyl and C1_6 haloalkyl, wherein the substituent and R7 are in a cis
configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0142]    In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula V(a) or V(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                         R1         Rm      Rn
        R2                    N
              R          N         N          R
                                   R4
                       Formula V(a)
                                              -47-

                           R1
         R2                      N       R8   R9
               R           N          N
                                       I
                                      R4
                                            Rm      Rn
                        Formula V(b)
wherein Rm and R" are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen and C1-6 alkyl,
and R1, R2 , R3, R4 , R7 , R8 , R9 and X are as defined herein.
[0143]     In some embodiments, Rm and R" are each hydrogen.
[0144]     In some embodiments, Rm and R" are each halogen.
[0145]     In some embodiments, Rm and R" are each fluorine.
[0146]     In some embodiments, one of Rm and R" is hydrogen and the other is halogen. In
some embodiments of such compounds, the halogen and R7 are in a trans configuration
with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of such
compounds, the halogen and R7 are in a cis configuration with respect to one another on
the cyclobutyl ring.
[0147]     In some embodiments, one of Rm and R" is hydrogen and the other is fluorine. In
some embodiments of such compounds, the fluorine and R7 are in a trans configuration
with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of such
compounds, the fluorine and R7 are in a cis configuration with respect to one another on the
cyclobutyl ring.
[0148]     In some embodiments, R5 and R , together with the carbon atom to which they are
bound, form 3-6 membered heterocycloalkyl, each of which is optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NRbRC, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl.
[0149]     In some embodiments, R5 and R , together with the carbon atom to which they are
bound, form aziridine, azetidine, pyrrolidine, oxirane, oxetane or tetrahydrofuran, each of
                                                 -48-

which is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN,
oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1_6 haloalkyl.
[0150]     In some embodiments, R5 and R6 are each independently C1_6 alkyl, or R5 and R6
together with the carbon atom to which they are bound form C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl or 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa,
OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2Ra, SO 2 NRRc,
C1_6 alkyl and C1_6 haloalkyl.
[0151]     In some embodiments, R5 and R6 are each methyl, or R5 and R6 together with the
carbon atom to which they are bound form C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl or 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2,
3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRRc,
C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1_6 alkyl and C1_6 haloalkyl.
[0152]     In some embodiments, R5 and R6 are each independently C1_6 alkyl, or R5 and R6 ,
together with the carbon to which they are bound, form cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl
or cyclohexyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc,
S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1_6 alkyl and C1_6 haloalkyl.
[0153]     In some embodiments, R5 and R6 are each methyl, or R5 and R6 , together with the
carbon to which they are bound, form cyclobutyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRRc, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1_6 alkyl and C1_6 haloalkyl.
[0154]     In some embodiments, R7 is selected from C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected
from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRbR, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra,
NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc, NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa,
NRdC(S)NRbRc, NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc, C(O)Ra,
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl,
                                                -49-

C7-11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl,
C26 alkynyl, C3_ cycloalkyl, C3_ cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0155]    In some embodiments, R7 is phenyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRRc,
NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRRc, NRdC(O)C(O)NRR, NRdC(S)Ra,
NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRRc, NRdC(NRe)NRRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRRc,
C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl,
C711 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl,
C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0156]    In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula VI, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof:
                          R1
                                                                              ((Rf)r
               R3         N          N(CR    8
                                               R 9 )m
                                     R4              R5      R6
                                        Formula VI
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1, R2 , R3, R4 , R5 , R6 , R8 , R9 , Rf, X and m are as defined
herein.
[0157]    In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula VII(a) or VII(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                 -50-

                          R1
       R2     xN
             R            N         N
                                                              -(RI)r
                                Formula VII(a)
                          R
       R2                       N     R8      R9
                                                                     (R )r
             R3           N         N
                                    R4
                                Formula VII(b)
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1, R2 , R3, R4, R8 , R9 , R' and X are as defined herein.
[0158]   In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                          R1         Rm       Rn
       R2                       N
             R3           N         N
                                                          1--(Rf)r
                                    R4
                                Formula VIII(a)
                                                 -51-

                          R1
         R21,xN                           R8     R9
                                                                      (R)r
                R
                                        I
                                       R4
                                              Rm       Rn
                                 Formula VIII(b)
wherein Rm and R" are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen and C1_ alkyl;
r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; and R1 , R2 , R3, R4 , R8, R9, Rf and X are as defined herein.
[0159]     In some embodiments, Rm and R" are each hydrogen.
[0160]     In some embodiments, Rm and R" are each halogen.
[0161]     In some embodiments, Rm and R" are each fluorine.
[0162]     In some embodiments, one of Rm and R" is hydrogen and the other is halogen. In
some embodiments of such compounds, the halogen and the phenyl ring are in a trans
configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of
such compounds, the halogen and the phenyl ring are in a cis configuration with respect to
one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0163]     In some embodiments, one of Rm and R" is hydrogen and the other is fluorine. In
some embodiments of such compounds, the fluorine and the phenyl ring are in a trans
configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of
such compounds, the fluorine and the phenyl ring are in a cis configuration with respect to
one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0164]     In some embodiments, R7 is selected from phenyl, 2-fluorophenyl, 3-fluorophenyl,
2, 4-difluorophenyl, 3,4-difluorophenyl, 3,5-difluorophenyl, 4-fluorophenyl, 2-chlorophenyl,
3-chlorophenyl, 4-chlorophenyl, 2, 4-dichlorophenyl, 3,4-dichlorophenyl, 3,5-dichlorophenyl,
2-methylphenyl, 3-methylphenyl, 2, 4-dimethylphenyl, 3,4-dimethylphenyl,
3,5-dimethylphenyl, 2-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl, 3-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl,
4-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl, 2-(aminomethyl)phenyl, 3-(aminomethyl)phenyl,
4-(aminomethyl)phenyl, 2-phenol, 3-phenol, 4-phenol, 2-methoxyphenyl, 3-methoxyphenyl,
                                                    -52-

4-methoxyphenyl, 2-difluoromethoxyphenyl, 3-difluoromethoxyphenyl,
4-difluoromethoxyphenyl, 2-trifluoromethoxyphenyl, 3-trifluoromethoxyphenyl,
4-trifluoromethoxyphenyl, 2-cyanophenyl, 3-cyanophenyl, 4-cyanophenyl, 2-benzamine,
3-benzamide, 4-benzamide, N-mehtyl-2-benzamine, N-methyl-3-benzamide,
N-methyl-4-benzamide, N,N-dimethyl-2-benzamine, N,N-dimethyl-3-benzamide, and
N,N-dimethyl-4-benzamide.
[0165]     In some embodiments, R7 is 5-10 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
OC(O)NRRc, NRR, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRR, NRdC(O)C(O)NRR,
NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRRc, NRdC(NRe)NRRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra,
NRdSO 2NRRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRRc,
C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO2Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of
the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0166]     In some embodiments, R7 is pyridyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRRc,
NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc, NRdC(O)C(O)NRbR,                     NRdC(S)Ra,
NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc, NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc,
C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl,
C711 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl,
C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0167]     In some embodiments, R7 is selected from 2-pyridyl, 3-pyridyl and 4-pyridyl, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa,
OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRbR, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbR,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR bRc, NRdC(S) Ra, N RdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc, NRdC(NRe)NRbRc,
                                                  -53-

NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa
C(S)NRRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc,                 C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-6 cycloalkyl, C3-6 cycloalkenyl, 3-6 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-6
membered heterocycloalkenyl, phenyl, naphthyl, C711 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl,
C711  aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or
5 Rf substituents.
[0168]    In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula IX, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof:
                          R1
                                                                                (RI)r
                                           (CRR 9)m
                3         N         N                                 N
                                    R4              R5      R6
                                       Formula IX
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1, R2 , R3, R4 , R5 , R , R8 , R9 , Rf, X and m are as defined
herein.
[0169]    In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula X(a) or X(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                          R1
        R2                      N
                  R3      N         N
                                                                  (Rf)r
                                    R4          N
                                Formula X(a)
                                                 -54-

                          R1
         R2 1-'xN                        R8     R9
                                                                        (RI)r
                R3        N           N                       N
                                      R4
                                Formula X(b)
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1, R2 , R3, R4 , R8 , R9 , R' and X are as defined herein.
[0170]     In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                          R1           Rm       Rn
         R2                     N
                   R3     N           N
                                                                  (Rf)r
                                      R4           Nr
                                Formula XI(a)
                          R1
                  R2            N        RfR9
                                                                        (Rf)r
                R3        N           N                       N
                                       I
                                      R4
                                             Rm       Rn
                                Formula XI(b)
wherein Rm and R" are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen and C1_ alkyl;
r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; and R1, R2 , R3, R4 , R8, R9, Rf and X are as defined herein.
                                                   -55-

[0171]      In some embodiments, Rm and R" are each hydrogen.
[0172]      In some embodiments, Rm and R" are each halogen.
[0173]      In some embodiments, Rm and R" are each fluorine.
[0174]      In some embodiments, one of Rm and R" is hydrogen and the other is halogen. In
some embodiments of such compounds, the halogen and the pyridyl ring are in a trans
configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of
such compounds, the halogen and the pyridyl ring are in a cis configuration with respect to
one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0175]      In some embodiments, one of Rm and R" is hydrogen and the other is fluorine. In
some embodiments of such compounds, the fluorine and the pyridyl ring are in a trans
configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of
such compounds, the fluorine and the pyridyl ring are in a cis configuration with respect to
one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0176]      In some embodiments, R7 is selected from pyrid-2-yl, 3-fluoro-pyrid-2-yl,
4-fluoro-pyrid-2-yl, 5-fluoro-pyrid-2-yl, 6-fluoro-pyrid-2-yl, 3-chloro-pyrid-2-yl,
4-chloro-pyrid-2-yl, 5-chloro-pyrid-2-yl, 6-chloro-pyrid-2-yl, 3-cyano-pyrid-2-yl,
4-cyano-pyrid-2-yl, 5-cyano-pyrid-2-yl, 6-cyano-pyrid-2-yl, 3-methyl-pyrid-2-yl,
4-methyl-pyrid-2-yl, 5-methyl-pyrid-2-yl, 6-methyl-pyrid-2-yl, 3-difluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
4-difluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 5-difluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 6-difluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
3-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 4-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 5-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
6-trif Iuoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 3-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 4-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
5-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 6-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 3-am inomethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
4-am inomethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 5-aminomethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 6-am inomethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
3-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl, 4-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl, 5-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl, 6-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl,
3-methoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 4-methoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 5-methoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 6-methoxy-pyrid-2-yl,
3-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 4-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 5-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl,
6-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 3-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 4-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl,
5-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 6-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 3-methylthio-pyrid-2-yl,
4-methylthio-pyrid-2-yl, 5-methylthio-pyrid-2-yl, 6-methylthio-pyrid-2-yl,
3-carboxamide-pyrid-2-yl, 4-carboxamide-pyrid-2-yl, 5- carboxamide-pyrid-2-yl, 6
carboxamide-pyrid-2-yl and 3-fluoro-6-methyl-pyrid-2-yl.
                                                 -56-

[0177]      In some embodiments, R7 is selected from pyrid-3-yl, 2-fluoro-pyrid-3-yl,
4-fluoro-pyrid-3-yl, 5-fluoro-pyrid-3-yl, 6-fluoro-pyrid-3-yl, 2-chloro-pyrid-3-yl,
4-chloro-pyrid-3-yl, 5-chloro-pyrid-3-yl, 6-chloro-pyrid-3-yl, 2-cyano-pyrid-3-yl,
4-cyano-pyrid-3-yl, 5-cyano-pyrid-3-yl, 6-cyano-pyrid-3-yl, 2-methyl-pyrid-3-yl,
4-methyl-pyrid-3-yl, 5-methyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-methyl-pyrid-3-yl, 2-difluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
4-difluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 5-difluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-difluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
2-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 4-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 5-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
6-trif Iuoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 2-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 4-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
5-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 2-am inomethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
4-aminomethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 5-aminomethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-aminomethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
2-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl, 4-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl, 5-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl, 6-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl,
2-methoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 4-methoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 5-methoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 6-methoxy-pyrid-3-yl,
2-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 4-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 5-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl,
6-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 2-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 4-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl,
5-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 6-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 2-methylthio-pyrid-3-yl,
4-methylthio-pyrid-3-yl, 5-methylthio-pyrid-3-yl, 6-methylthio-pyrid-3-yl,
2-carboxamide-pyrid-3-yl, 4-carboxamide-pyrid-3-yl, 5- carboxamide-pyrid-3-yl and 6
carboxamide-pyrid-3-yl.
[0178]      In some embodiments, VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or
XI(b), X is selected from a bond, -(CH 2 )p-, -(CH 2 )pO(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)(CH 2 )q-,
-(CH 2 )pS(CH 2)q-,  -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2)q-,     -(CH 2)pC(O)O(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pOC(O)(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2)pNRdC(O)(CH      2 )q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,      -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)NRd(CH       2 )q-,
-(CH 2 )pNRdSO 2 (CH 2 )q-, and -(CH 2)pSO 2 NRd(CH 2 )q-.
[0179]      In some embodiments, X is a bond.
[0180]      In some embodiments, the compound is of Formula XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                       -57-

         R1
R2N
                              9
                      R(CRR     )m          R7
         Ni         N
                                 R5      F6
            Formula XII(a)
         R1
R2
              N
R        N          N         R
                     I
                    R4
      Formula XII(b)
         R1
    R2N                R8  R9
         N          N
R2
      Formula XII(c)
         R1          R'"   R
R2
R3D         N       N         R7
                    R4
      Formula XII(d)
                                    -58-

                    N R8   R9
   R3 '  N          NR7
                    R4
                         Rm   Rn
      Formula XII(e)
                                      -- (R)r
   RN               N
R2
                                         (Rf)r
            Formula XII(g)
                                 -59-

   R1
R2
        N      R8      R9
R3 N        N
            R(42
                                   (R
      Formula XII(h)
      R      R'"       Rn
                  1--(R')r
R2          R4
      Formula XII(i)
   R1
R2
        N      R8      R9
                                   (R')r
R3 N        N
            R4
                    R'"    Rn
      Formula XII(j)
                              -60-

                                    (RR1r
               NN
         N      N                       N
R2
          Formula XII(k)
   R2N            RN     R
                                N(RI)r
       R3       N   N
R               R
          Formula XII(m)
                           -61-

                   R1           Rm      Rn
        R2
                          N
        R3         N           N
                                                          (R)
                               R4         N
                      Formula XII(n)
                   R
                                                      N       (Rr
                   N           N
        R3
                               R4
                                     R'"      Rn
                      Formula XII(o)
wherein R1, R2 , R3, R4 , R , R , R , R8, R9 , Rf, Rm, R", m and r are as defined herein.
[0181]    In some embodiments, X is -0-.
[0182]    In some embodiments, X is selected from -CH20- and -OCH 2-.
[0183]    In some embodiments, X is -NRd-.
[0184]    In some embodiments, X is selected from -CH 2NRd- and -NRdCH 2 -.
[0185]    In some embodiments, X is slected from -NRdC(O)- and -C(O)NRd-.
[0186]    In some embodiments, X is slected from -CH 2NRdC(O)- and -C(O)NRdCH 2 -.
[0187]    In some embodiments, R2 is selected from C3_ cycloalkyl, C3_ cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected
from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH2)nOC(O)NRRc,
(CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH2 )nNRdC(O)NRRc,
(CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH2 )nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH2 )nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH2 )nNRdC(S)NRRc,
                                                 -62-

(CH 2)nNRdC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nNRdSO 2 N RRc,
(CH 2 )nC(O)Ra,  (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NRRc, (CH2)nC(S)Ra, (CH2)nC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nC(S)NRRc, (CH2 )nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2)nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nSO 2NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_ alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2 )nC3_8
cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and
(CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf
substituents.
[0188]    In some embodiments, R2 is phenyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2)nOC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nOC(O)NRRc, (CH2)nNRRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)NRRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRRc, (CH2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe)NR Rc, (CH2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdSO 2Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2NRRc, (CH2)nC(O)Ra, (CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2)nC(O)NRRc, (CH2)nC(S)Ra
(CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH2)nC(S)NRRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2)nSRa, (CH2)nS(O)Ra
(CH2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NRRc, C16 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl
and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_ alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0189]    In some embodiments, R2 is phenyl substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2)nOC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)NRRc, (CH2)nNRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)NRRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRRc, (CH2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe)NR RC, (CH2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdSO 2Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2NRRc, (CH2)nC(O)Ra, (CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2)nC(O)NRRc, (CH2)nC(S)Ra
(CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH2)nC(S)NRRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2)nSRa, (CH2)nS(O)Ra
(CH 2)nSO 2Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NRbRc, C1_ alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl
and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_ alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
                                               -63-

alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents; wherein at least one substitutent is bonded at the meta position.
[0190]     In some, R2 is phenyl substituted with a substituent selected from (CH2)nC(O)ORa
and (CH2)nC(O)NRbRc; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents
selected from halogen, CN, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2)nOC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe)NR bRc, (CH2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdSO 2Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRbRc, (CH2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2 )nC(O)NRRc, (CH2 )nC(S)Ra
(CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH2)nC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2)nSRa, (CH2)nS(O)Ra
(CH2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl
and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_ alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0191]     In some embodiments, R2 is phenyl substituted with a substituent selected from
C(O)OH, C(O)NH 2, C(O)OC1_ alkyl, C(O)NHC 1 _ alkyl and C(O)N(C 1 _ alkyl) 2; and optionally
substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from halogen, C16 alkyl and C16
haloalkyl.
[0192]     In some embodiments, R2 is phenyl substituted at the meta position with a
substituent selected from (CH2)nC(O)ORa and (CH2)nC(O)NRbR; and optionally substituted
with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from halogen, CN, (CH2)nORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2 )nOC(O)ORa, (CH2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(O)NR bRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(S) Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdS0 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdS0 2 NRbRc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2)nC(O)NRb Rc,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra,  (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2 )nSRa,
(CH 2 )nS(O)Ra,  (CH2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nS0 2NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6
                                               -64-

alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0193]    In some embodiments, R2 is phenyl substituted at the meta position with a
substituent selected from (CH2)nC(O)ORa and (CH2)nC(O)NRbRc, and optionally substituted
with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from halogen, hydroxyl, C16 alkoxy, CN, C1_6
alkyl and C16 haloalkyl.
[0194]    In some embodiments, R2 is phenyl substituted at the meta position with a
substituent selected from C(O)OH, C(O)NH 2, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl, C(O)NHC 1 _ alkyl and
C(O)N(C 1 _ alkyl) 2; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected
from halogen, hydroxyl, C16 alkoxy, CN, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl.
[0195]    In some embodiments, R2 is phenyl substituted with (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra
is C1_ alkyl or 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH2 )nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH2 )nNRbRc, (CH2 )nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(O)NR bRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH2 )nNRdC(S) Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdS0 2 Ra, (CH2)nNRdS0 2 NRbRc, (CH2)nC(O)Ra, (CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2)nC(O)NRb Rc,
(CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2 )nSRa,
(CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH2 )nS0 2Ra, (CH2)nS0 2NRbRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or
3 additional substituents selected from halogen, CN, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH2 )nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH2 )nNRbRc, (CH2 )nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(O)NR bRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(S) Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdS0 2 Ra, (CH2)nNRdS0 2 NRbRc, (CH2)nC(O)Ra, (CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2)nC(O)NRb Rc,
(CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2 )nSRa,
(CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH2 )nS0 2Ra, (CH2)nS0 2NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2 )nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
                                                -65-

(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0196]     In some embodiments, R2 is phenyl substituted with (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra
is selected from C1-6 alkyl, C16 alkyl-OH and C1_ alkyl-NH 2, each optionally substituted with
1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)NRRc, (CH2 )nNRRc, (CH2 )nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(O)NRR, (CH2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nNRdSO 2NRRc,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NRRc, (CH2)nSRa, (CH2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2)nSO 2NRRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl;
and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from halogen, CN,
(CH 2)nORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nNRRc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NRRc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 NRRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nC(O)NRRc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRRc, (CH 2)nC(NRe)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nSRa, (CH2)nS(O)Ra, (CH2)nSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NRRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2 )nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the
C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2 )nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0197]     In some embodiments, R2 is 3-benzamide, N-methyl-3-benzamide,
N,N-dimethyl-3-benzamide, 4-fluoro-3-benzamide, N-methyl-4-fluoro-3-benzamide,
N,N-dimethyl-4-fluoro-3-benzamide, 3-benzoic acid, methyl-3-benzoate, 4-fluoro-3-benzoic
acid and methyl-4-fluoro-3-benzoate.
[0198]     In some embodiments, R2 is 5-10 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nNRRc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH2 )nNRdC(S) Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NRRc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NRe)NRRc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NRRc,
                                                  -66-

(CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2 )nSRa,
(CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH2 )nSO 2Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2 )nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0199]     In some embodiments, R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl,
triazyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3 or 4
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nNRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(S) Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NRRc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NRe)NRRc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NRRc,
(CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2 )nSRa,
(CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH2 )nSO 2Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NRRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2 )nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0200]     In some embodiments, R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl,
triazyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with a substituent
selected from (CH2)nC(O)ORa and (CH2)nC(O)NRbRc; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or
3 additional substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH2 )nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH2 )nNRbRc, (CH2 )nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(O)NR bRc, (CH2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRC, (CH2)nNRdC(S) Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nNRdSO 2 NRbRc, (CH2)nC(O)Ra, (CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2)nC(O)NRb Rc,
(CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2 )nSRa
                                                   -67-

(CH 2 )nS(O)Ra,   (CH2 )nSO 2Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_ alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0201]     In some embodiments, R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl and
triazyl, each optionally substituted with (CH2)nC(O)NRRc.
[0202]     In some embodiments, R2 is selected from furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl,
each optionally substituted with (CH2)nC(O)NRRc.
[0203]     In some embodiments, R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl and
triazyl, each optionally substituted with (CH2)nC(O)NH 2.
[0204]     In some embodiments, R2 is selected from furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl,
each optionally substituted with (CH2)nC(O)NH 2.
[0205]     In some embodiments, R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl,
triazyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is C16 alkyl or 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
(CH 2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH2)nOC(O)NRRc, (CH2)nNRbRc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(S)NRRc, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH2 )nNRdSO 2 NRRc, (CH2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH2)nC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nC(O)NRRc, (CH2)nC(S)Ra, (CH2)nC(S)ORa, (CH2)nC(S)NRRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc,
(CH 2)nSRa, (CH2)nS(O)Ra, (CH2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH2 )nSO 2 NRRc, C16 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the
C16 alkyl, C26 alkenyl, C26 alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
                                                   -68-

[0206]     In some embodiments, R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl and
triazyl, each optionally substituted with (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is selected from C1-6
alkyl, C16 alkyl-OH and C1_ alkyl-NH 2, each optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2)nOC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)NRRc, (CH2 )nNRRc, (CH2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2 )nC(O)NRRc, (CH2 )nSRa, (CH2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nSO 2NRRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10
membered heteroaryl.
[0207]     In some embodiments, R2 is selected furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl,
each optionally substituted with (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is selected from C1_6 alkyl,
C1_6 alkyl-OH and C1_6 alkyl-NH 2, each optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, (CH 2 )nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nNRRc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2 )nC(O)NRRc, (CH2 )nSRa, (CH2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nSO 2NRRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10
membered heteroaryl.
[0208]     In some embodiments, R2 is selected from indolyl, indazolyl, benzimidazolyl,
benzoxazolyl and benzoisoxazolyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3 or 4 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2 )nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nOC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nNRRc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)C(O)NRRc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)NRbRC, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe )NRbRC, (CH2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nC(S)Ra
(CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NRRc, (CH 2 )nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra
(CH 2)nSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NRRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl
and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
                                                 -69-

alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0209]    In some embodiments, R2 is selected from 1H-indazol-6-yl, 1H-indazol-5-yl,
1H-indazol-4-yl, 3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-amino(1 H-indazol-6-yl),
3-amino(1 H-indazol-7-yl), 1-methyl(1 H-indazol-6-yl), 3-methyl(1 H-indazol-6-yl),
3-amino-1 -methyl(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-cyano(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-carboxamide(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-carboxamidine(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-vinyl(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-ethyl(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-acetamide(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-methylsulfonylamine(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-methoxycarboxamide(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-methylamino(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-dimethylamino(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-ethylamino(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-(2-aminoethyl)amino(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-(2-hydroxyethyl)amino(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-[(methylethyl)amino](1 H-indazol-5-yl),
6-benzimidazol-5-yl, 6-(2-methylbenzimidazol-5-yl), 2-aminobenzimidazol-5-yl,
2-hydroxybenzimidazol-5-yl, 2-acetamidebenzimidazol-5-yl,
3-aminobenzo[3,4-d]isoxazol-5-yl, 3-aminobenzo[d]isoxazol-6-yl,
3-aminobenzo[d]isoxazol-7-yl, 2-methylbenzoxazol-5-yl and 2-methylbenzoxazo-6-yl.
[0210]    In some embodiments, R2 is selected from 3-6 membered heterocycloalkyl and 3-6
membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2)nOC(O)ORa
(CH2)nOC(O)NRRc, (CH2 )nNRbRc, (CH2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa,
(CH2)nNRdC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)C(O)NRRc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa,
(CH2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe )NRbRc, (CH2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nC(S)Ra
(CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NRRc, (CH 2 )nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra
(CH2)nSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl
and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
                                              -70-

[0211]    In some embodiments, R2 is selected from aziridinyl, azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl,
piperidinyl, piperazinyl and morpholinyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)NRRc, (CH 2 )nNRRc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(S) Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NRRc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NRe)NRRc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NRRc,
(CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH2)nC(S)NRRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2)nSRa,
(CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH2 )nSO 2Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH2 )nC3_8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0212]    In some embodiments, R2 is NRbRc, wherein Rb and Rc are as defined herein.
[0213]    In some embodiments, R2 is NRbRc, wherein one of Rb and Rc is hydrogen and the
other is C1_6 alkyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0214]    In some embodiments, X is -C(O)- and R2 is NRbRc, wherein Rb and Rc are as
defined herein.
[0215]    In some embodiments, X is -C(O)- and R2 is NRbRc, wherein one of Rb and Rc is
hydrogen and the other is C1_6 alkyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0216]    In some embodiments, X is -(CH 2)p-and R2 is NRbRc, wherein Rb and Rc are as
defined herein.
[0217]    In some embodiments, X is -(CH 2)p-and R2 is NRbRc, wherein one of Rb and Rc is
hydrogen and the other is C1_6 alkyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0218]    In some embodiments, X, R2 and R , together with the carbon atoms to which they
are bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms
selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur, and optioanlly containing one or more double
bonds, and optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0219]    In some embodiments, the compound is of Formula XIII, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof:
                                                -71-

                              R1
                                  N
         (RW)t       A
                                                    9
                                               (CR8 R )m           R7
                              N          N
                                                       R5       R6
                        Formula XIII
wherein A is a 5 or 6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms
selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally containing one or more double
bonds; t is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; and R1, R4 , R , R , R , R8 , R9 , R' and m are as defined herein.
[0220]     In some embodiments, ring A together with the pyrimidine ring to which it is bound
form a group selected from quinazoline, pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidine, pyrido[3,4-d]pyrimidine,
pyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidine, pyrido[3,2-d]pyrimidine, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydroquinazoline,
5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidine, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[3,4-d]pyrimidine,
5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidine, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[3,2-d]pyrimidine,
thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidine, thiazolo[4,5-d]pyrimidine, 5H-pyrrolo[3,2-d]pyrimidine, 7H-purine,
thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine, thiazolo[5,4-d]pyrimidine, 7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine, 9H-purine,
1H-pyrazolo[4,3-d]pyrimidine, 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine,
1H-[1,2,3]triazolo[4,5-d]pyrimidine, 3H-[1,2,3]triazolo[4,5-d]pyrimidine,
6,7-dihydro-5H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine, 6,7-dihydro-5H-pyrrolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine,
6,7-dihydro-5H-pyrrolo[3,2-d]pyrimidine and 6,7-dihydro-5H-cyclopenta[d]pyrimidine, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0221]     In some embodiments, Ring A together with the pyrimidine ring to which it is bound
form a group selected from quinazoline, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidine,
5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[3,4-d]pyrimidine, 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine,
thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine and thiazolo[5,4-d]pyrimidine, each optionally substituted with 1, 2,
3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0222]     In some embodiments, R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6
haloalkyl, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, ORa, NRbRc, C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl.
[0223]     In some embodiments, R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6
haloalkyl, hydroxyl, C1_6 alkoxy, NH2, NHC1_6 alkyl, and N(C1 _6 alkyl) 2 .
                                                 -72-

[0224]     In some embodiments, R' is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, CF 3 and
methyl.
[0225]     In some embodiments, R' is hydrogen.
[0226]     In some embodiments, R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6
haloalkyl, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, ORa, NRbRc, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl.
[0227]     In some embodiments, R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6
haloalkyl, hydroxyl, C1_6 alkoxy, NH2, NHC1_6 alkyl, and N(C1 _6 alkyl) 2 .
[0228]     In some embodiments, R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, CF 3 and
methyl.
[0229]     In some embodiments, R3 is hydrogen.
[0230]     In some embodiments, R1 and R3 are each hydrogen.
[0231]     In some embodiments, R4 is selected from hydrogen, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl,
C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc and SO 2 Ra
[0232]     In some embodiments, R4 is hydrogen.
[0233]     In some embodiments, R1, R3 and R4 are each hydrogen.
[0234]     In some embodiments, R8 and R9 , at each occurrence, are each independently
selected from hydrogen, halogen and C1_6 alkyl.
[0235]     In some embodiments, R8 and R9 , at each occurrence, are each hydrogen.
[0236]     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula I is
1-(2-((3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-3-ca
rboxamide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments, a
compound of Formula I is
1-(2-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)-1 H-pyrr
ole-3-carboxamide (Compound D) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some
embodiments, a compound of Formula I is
3-(2-((-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)benzamide or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula I
is 3-(2-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)
pyrimidin-5-yl)benzamide (Compound B) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0237]     Methods of preparing compounds described herein are readily available in the art.
United States Patent No. 7,956,056, for instance, discloses methods of preparing
compounds of Formula A and Formula B. WO 2011/133888, furthermore, provides
                                                 -73-

synthesis methods for Formulas I-XIII. The contents of these patents and patent
applications are incorporated into the present disclosure by reference in their entirety.
[0238]     It is also contemplated that skeletal muscle troponin activators suitable for
methods described herein can be compounds disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 8,227,603,
8,063,082, 7,956,056, 7,851,484, 7,598,248 and 7,989,469, and PCT Publication Nos.
WO/2013/010015, WO/2008/016648, WO/2009/099594, WO/2011/0133920,
WO/2011/133888, WO/2011/133882, and WO/2011/13392. The contents of these patents
and patent applications are incorporated into the present disclosure by reference in their
entirety. In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator is
1-((1 R)-1 -methylpropyl)-6-chloro-7-pyrazolylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridin-2-o or a pharmaceutically
accpetable salt thereof.
[0239]     The chemical entities described herein are administered at a therapeutically
effective dosage, e.g., a dosage sufficient to provide treatment for the disease states
previously described. While human dosage levels have yet to be optimized for the chemical
entities described herein, generally, a daily dose ranges from about 0.05 to 100 mg/kg of
body weight; in certain embodiments, from about 0.10 to 10.0 mg/kg of body weight, and in
certain embodiments, from about 0.15 to 1.0 mg/kg of body weight. Thus, for administration
to a 70 kg person, in certain embodiments, the dosage range would be about from 3.5 to
7000 mg per day; in certain embodiments, about from 7.0 to 700.0 mg per day, and in
certain embodiments, about from 10.0 to 100.0 mg per day. The amount of the chemical
entity administered will, of course, be dependent on the subject and disease state being
treated, the severity of the affliction, the manner and schedule of administration and the
judgment of the prescribing physician; for example, a likely dose range for oral
administration would be from about 70 to 700 mg per day, whereas for intravenous
administration a likely dose range would be from about 70 to 700 mg per day depending on
compound pharmacokinetics.
[0240]     Administration of the chemical entities described herein can be via any of the
accepted modes of administration for agents that serve similar utilities including, but not
limited to, orally, sublingually, subcutaneously, intravenously, intranasally, topically,
transdermally, intraperitoneally, intramuscularly, intrapulmonarilly, vaginally, rectally, or
intraocularly. In some embodiments, oral or parenteral administration is used.
                                                -74-

[0241]     Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions include solid, semi-solid, liquid and
aerosol dosage forms, such as, e.g., tablets, capsules, powders, liquids, suspensions,
suppositories, aerosols or the like. The chemical entities can also be administered in
sustained or controlled release dosage forms, including depot injections, osmotic pumps,
pills, transdermal (including electrotransport) patches, and the like, for prolonged and/or
timed, pulsed administration at a predetermined rate. In certain embodiments, the
compositions are provided in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of a
precise dose.
[0242]     The chemical entities described herein can be administered either alone or more
typically in combination with a conventional pharmaceutical carrier, excipient or the like
(e.g., mannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium stearate, sodium saccharine, talcum, cellulose,
sodium crosscarmellose, glucose, gelatin, sucrose, magnesium carbonate, and the like). If
desired, the pharmaceutical composition can also contain minor amounts of nontoxic
auxiliary substances such as wetting agents, emulsifying agents, solubilizing agents, pH
buffering agents and the like (e.g., sodium acetate, sodium citrate, cyclodextrine derivatives,
sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine acetate, triethanolamine oleate, and the like).
Generally, depending on the intended mode of administration, the pharmaceutical
composition will contain about 0.005% to 95%; in certain embodiments, about 0.5% to 50%
by weight of a chemical entity. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known,
or will be apparent, to those skilled in this art; for example, see Remington's Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Mack Publishing Company, Easton, Pennsylvania.
[0243]     In certain embodiments, the compositions will take the form of a pill or tablet and
thus the composition will contain, along with the active ingredient, a diluent such as lactose,
sucrose, dicalcium phosphate, or the like; a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or the
like; and a binder such as starch, gum acacia, polyvinylpyrrolidine, gelatin, cellulose,
cellulose derivatives or the like. In another solid dosage form, a powder, marume, solution
or suspension (e.g., in propylene carbonate, vegetable oils or triglycerides) is encapsulated
in a gelatin capsule.
[0244]     Liquid pharmaceutically administrable compositions can, for example, be prepared
by dissolving, dispersing, etc. at least one chemical entity and optional pharmaceutical
adjuvants in a carrier (e.g., water, saline, aqueous dextrose, glycerol, glycols, ethanol or the
like) to form a solution or suspension. Injectables can be prepared in conventional forms,
                                                 -75-

either as liquid solutions or suspensions, as emulsions, or in solid forms suitable for
dissolution or suspension in liquid prior to injection. The percentage of chemical entities
contained in such parenteral compositions is highly dependent on the specific nature
thereof, as well as the activity of the chemical entities and the needs of the subject.
However, percentages of active ingredient of 0.01% to 10% in solution are employable, and
will be higher if the composition is a solid which will be subsequently diluted to the above
percentages. In certain embodiments, the composition will comprise from about 0.2 to 2%
of the active agent in solution.
[0245]    Pharmaceutical compositions of the chemical entities described herein may also
be administered to the respiratory tract as an aerosol or solution for a nebulizer, or as a
microfine powder for insufflation, alone or in combination with an inert carrier such as
lactose. In such a case, the particles of the pharmaceutical composition have diameters of
less than 50 microns, in certain embodiments, less than 10 microns.
[0246]    The following examples serve to more fully describe the disclosed compounds the
methods. It is understood that these examples in no way serve to limit the true scope of this
invention, but rather are presented for illustrative purposes.
Example 1: General Method for Force-pCa Skinned Muscle Fiber Analysis
[0247]    This example demonstrates the preparation of skinned muscle fibers and the use
of these fibers to study the function of fast skeletal muscle troponin activators on muscle
(e.g., diaphragm muscle) fibers.
 [0248]    Muscle tissue for in vitro skinned fiber studies were prepared using a protocol
based on Lynch and Faulkner (Am J Physiol 275:C1548-54 (1998)). Briefly, rat diaphragm
or rabbit psoas muscles were rapidly dissected and rinsed with physiological saline.
Muscles were then incubated in skinning solution (125 mM K-propionate, 20 mM imidazole,
5 mM EGTA, 2 mM MgCl 2, 2 mM ATP, pH 7.0) supplemented with 0.5% Brij 58 (Sigma
Chemicals, St. Louis, MO) or 0.5% Triton X-1 00 (Sigma Chemicals, St. Louis, MO) for 30
minutes at 40C. Muscles were then placed in storage solution (125 mM K-propionate, 20
mM imidazole, 5 mM EGTA, 2 mM MgCl 2, 2 mM ATP, glycerol 50%, pH 7.0) at -200C.
Muscles were incubated in storage solution at -200C for later use.
[0249]    For skinned fiber analysis, single muscle fibers were dissected from larger
segments of tissue in rigor buffer at 40C (20 pM MOPS, 5 pM MgCl2, 120 pM potassium
acetate, 1 pM EGTA, pH 7.0). They were then suspended between a 400A force
                                                -76-

transducer (Aurora Scientific, Ontario, Canada) and a fixed post and secured with 2-4 pl of
a 5% solution of methylcellulose in acetone. Fibers were then incubated at 1OQC in a
relaxing buffer (20 pM MOPS, 5.5 pM MgCl 2 , 132 pM potassium acetate, 4.4 pM ATP, 22
pM creatine phosphate, 1 mg/ml creatine kinase, 1 mM DTT, 44 ppm antifoam , pH 7.0)
and baseline tension adjusted. Tension was generated in each fiber by changing fiber
buffer over to relax buffer supplemented with 1 mM EGTA and one or more concentrations
of aqueous calcium chloride. Test articles were added to these buffers in a 1% DMSO
solution..
Example 2: Force-pCa Skinned Muscle Fiber Analysis of Compound A
[0250]     The functional effects of the fast skeletal muscle troponin activator, Compound A
(6-bromo-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol), on skeletal muscle force were
assessed under isometric conditions in permeabilized single fibers from rabbit psoas
muscle and rat diaphragm muscle according to the procedure of Example 1. Using a 15pM
calcium chloride solution, a final concentration of 3.16 pM free calcium ions (pCa=5.5) was
achieved with the diaphragm muscle, while the free calcium concentration was 1.78 pM
(pCa=5.75) with psoas muscle (calcium concentrations calculated using the web resource
(www.stanford.edu/~cpatton/webmaxc/webmaxcS.htm). Psoas muscle consists almost
entirely of fast fibers. Because the muscle membranes are removed in the preparation of
the tissues, contractile force can be measured after direct application of calcium. As shown
in FIG. 1, Treatment of skinned psoas or diaphragm fibers with Compound A (10 nM-40 [LM)
revealed dose-dependent increases in fiber sensitivity at a constant concentration of
calcium. For psoas muscle, the EC5 0 was found to be 0.59 pM (n=3) and the EC50 for rat
diaphragm was found to be 1.2 pM (n=4).
[0251]     As shown in FIG. 1, Compound A increased tension in rat diaphragm muscle and
rabbit psoas muscle.
Example 3: Force-pCa Skinned Muscle Fiber Analysis of Compound B
[0252]     Force production was measured in rat skinned diaphragm fibers exposed to
increasing concentrations of calcium in the presence and absence of the fast skeletal
muscle troponin activator Compound B,
(3-(2-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-f luoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)
pyrimidin-5-yl)benzamide), according to the procedure of Example 1. The results of this
experiment are presented in FIG. 2 and Table 1, below.
                                                  -77-

                          Table 1: pCa at 50% of Maximum Tension
                                                      Log [Ca 2,] (M)
                              Vehicle                   -5.43    0.03
                              0.5 uM                   -5.78    0.008
                                1 uM                    -5.90    0.03
                               10 uM                    -6.46    0.03
 [0253]   As shown in Table 1 and FIG. 2, Compound B dose-dependently increased the
calcium sensitivity of rat skinned diaphragm fibers. Muscle fibers treated with 1OpM
Compound B exhibited a 10-fold increase in calcium sensitivity compared to vehicle-only
muscle fibers.
Example 4: Force-pCa Skinned Muscle Fiber Analysis of Compound C
[0254]   Force production was measured in rat skinned diaphragm fibers exposed to
increasing concentrations of calcium in the presence and absence of the fast skeletal
muscle troponin activator Compound C, 1-(ethylpropyl)-6-ethynylimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol,
according to the procedure in Example 1. The results of this experiment are presented in
FIG. 3 and Table 2, below.
                          Table 2: pCa at 50% of Maximum Tension
                                                      Log [Ca 2,] (M)
                              Vehicle                  -5.43 ± 0.054
                              0.1 uM                   -5.59 ± 0.007
                                1 uM                   -6.19 ±0.018
                               10 uM                    -6.74 ± 0.28
 [0255]   As shown in Table 2 and FIG. 3, Compound C dose-dependently increased the
calcium sensitivity of rat skinned diaphragm fibers. Muscle fibers treated with 1OpM
Compound C exhibited a 10-fold increase in calcium sensitivity compared to vehicle-only
muscle fibers.
Example 5: Diaphragm Characteristics in a Rat Model of Heart Failure (HF)
                                             -78-

[0256]     Heart failure has a deleterious effect on respiratory function. It was hypothesized
that the diaphragm, as a primary muscle involved in respiration, would be affected by heart
failure and that a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator could improve its function.
[0257]     In this experiment, the effects of a HF on the diaphragm were studies using rats a
rat model where the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery was ligated. The
diaphragms from SHAM and LAD rats were excised, cleaned, pinned to corkboard, and
frozen in melting isopentane. Serial frozen cross sections were cut at 10 pm and stained for
myosin ATPase after preincubation at pH 4.35. Digital images were obtained under 200x
total magnification (Olympus BX41) and analyzed by Axiovision software (Zeiss). Stained
fibers were classified Type I, Type Ila, or Type Il b/x and measured for individual myofiber
cross-sectional area (pm 2 ). The fiber type distribution of the SHAM and LAD rats is
summarized in Table 3 and FIGS. 4A-4D (note: in the graphs, * indicates p < 0.05).
                                              Table 3
                                               SHAM                              LAD
            % Type 1                         35.3 ±2.5                         40 ±2.5
           % Type lla                        34.1 ±3.5                        30.8± 1.9
         % Type 1I b/x                       30.4 ±2.6                        29.1 ±2.1
[0258]     The experiment showed that mean diaphragm cross sectional area was
significantly lower in HF diaphragm muscle. Within individual fiber types, significant atrophy
in type Ila and type IIb/x fibers was observed in HF diaphragms. Fiber type distribution
characterized by myosin ATPase activity was not significantly different between SHAM and
HF animals.
Example 6: Force-Frequency Relationship Analysis in a Rat HF Model
[0259]     Diaphragm contractile force was measured by electrical field stimulation in an
organ bath system (Radnoti) based on a standard operating protocol adapted from the
Treat NMD website (http://www.treat
nmd.eu/downloads/file/sops/dmd/MDX/DMD            M.1.2.002.pdf). The diaphragm and the last
floating rib from SHAM and LAD rats were excised, rinsed in physiological saline, and
placed in a temperature controlled water-jacketed chamber (26-271C) containing Krebs
Henseleit Buffer (118 mM NaCl, 10 mM glucose, 4.6 mM KCI, 1.2 mM KH2 PO4, 1.2 mM
                                                -79-

MgSO 4 *7H 2 0, 24.8 mM NaHCO 3, 2.5 mM CaCl 2, 50mg/L tubocurarine, 50U/L insulin,
pH:7.4) that was continuously aerated with 95%       02  /5%  02. After 10 minutes of
equilibration, vertical strips spanning the floating rib to the central tendon were cut from
diaphragms. Braided silk sutures were tied at the central tendon and floating rib and
attached to a force transducer between two platinum electrodes. Diaphragm strips were set
to a length that produced maximum twitch tension (Lo). The force-frequency profile of the
muscle was obtained by stimulating the muscle at frequencies between 10-150 Hz (Grass
Stimulator, 800 ms train duration, 0.6 ms pulse width).
[0260]     FIG. 5 shows that diaphragms from LAD animals exhibited less force output than
those in from SHAM animals.
Example 7: Force-Frequency Relationship Analysis of Compound B
[0261]     Force production was measured in rat diaphragm muscle ex vivo by electrical field
stimulation in the presence and absence of Compound B according to the procedure of
Example 6. Compound B was suspended in DMSO and added directly to the bath.
[0262]    As shown in FIG. 6, diaphragm muscle treated with Compound B produced
significantly more force compared to vehicle-only diaphragms at frequencies up to 30Hz of
electrical stimulation.
Example 8: Diaphragm Repeated Contraction Fatigue Analysis
[0263]     Following the procedure of Example 7, diaphragms were subjected to repeated
electrical stimulations (20Hz stimulation, 330ms train duration, 1 train/sec) over a period of
10 minutes. Force production was measured over 600 contractions in rat diaphragm
muscle ex vivo by field electrical stimulation in the presence and absence of Compound B
(5 uM and 10 uM). As shown in FIG. 7, diaphragm muscle treated with Compound B
produced significantly more force compared to vehicle-only diaphragms in a dose
dependent manner.
Example 9: Force-Frequency Relationship Analysis of Compound D
[0264]     Force production was measured in rat diaphragm muscle ex vivo by electrical field
stimulation in the presence and absence of fast skeletal muscle troponin activator
Compound D,
                                                -80-

1-(2-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)-1 H-pyrr
ole-3-carboxamide according to the procedure of Example 6. Compound D was suspended
in DMSO and added directly to the bath.
[0265]     As shown in FIG. 8A and FIG. 8B, 30pM Compound D significantly increased force
in both SHAM and HF diaphragms at submaximal frequencies of electrical stimulation.
Example 10: Force-pCa Skinned Muscle Fiber Analysis of Compound D in a Rat
Model of HF
[0266]     Force production was measured in skinned diaphragm fibers from SHAM and LAD
rats exposed to increasing concentrations of calcium in the presence and absence of
Compound D according to the procedure of Example 1.
[0267]     As shown in FIG. 9, HF diaphragm fibers have significantly lower Ca 2 , sensitivity
than SHAM fibers. Compopund D (3pM) significantly increased Ca2 , sensitivity in both
SHAM and HF diaphragm fibers.
Example 11: Diaphragm Force-Frequency Relationship Analysis in a Mouse ALS
Model
[0268]     Respiratory weakness is a complication of ALS. It was hypothesized that a fast
skeletal muscle troponin activator could increase the force output of the diaphragm of a
subject suffering from ALS. To test this hypothesis, the SOD1 transgenic mouse, a rodent
model of ALS, was used in this experiment.
[0269]     Diaphragm contractile force was measured by electrical field stimulation in an
organ bath system (Radnoti) based on a standard operating protocol adapted from the
Treat NMD website (http://www.treat
nmd.eu/downloads/file/sops/dmd/MDX/DMD             M.1.2.002.pdf). The diaphragm and the last
floating rib from wild type (WT) and SOD1 mice were excised, rinsed in physiological saline,
and placed in a temperature controlled water-jacketed chamber (26-27         0C) containing
Krebs-Henseleit Buffer (118 mM NaCI, 10 mM glucose, 4.6 mM KCl, 1.2 mM KH2PO4 , 1.2
mM MgSO 4 *7H 2 0, 24.8 mM NaHCO3 , 2.5 mM CaCl 2, 50mg/L tubocurarine, 50U/L insulin,
pH:7.4) that was continuously aerated with 95%        02 /5%  02. After 10 minutes of
equilibration, vertical strips spanning the floating rib to the central tendon were cut from
diaphragms. Braided silk sutures were tied at the central tendon and floating rib and
                                                 -81-

attached to a force transducer between two platinum electrodes. Diaphragm strips were set
to a length that produced maximum twitch tension (Lo). The force-frequency profile of the
muscle was obtained by stimulating the muscle at frequencies between 10-150 Hz (Grass
Stimulator, 800 ms train duration, 0.6 ms pulse width). Compound C was suspended in
DMSO and directly added into the bath.
[0270]     As shown in FIG. 10, Compound C increases submaximal force output in WT and
SOD1 mouse diaphragm muscle in a dose-dependent manner. A trend for reduced force at
higher frequencies of stimulation was observed in SOD1 diaphragm muscle. Both WT and
SOD1 diaphragm muscle treated with Compound C produced significantly more force
compared to vehicle-only diaphragms at frequencies up to 30Hz of electrical stimulation.
Example 12: Unrestrained whole body plethysmography (UWBP)
[0271]     Wild type (WT) and SOD1 mice-were dosed with vehicle or 10 mg/kg Compound C
and placed in plethysmography chambers for 30 minutes of acclimitization. After
acclimatization, respiratory parameters, including tidal volume, respiratory rate, and minute
ventilation, were monitored for 10 minutes at room air. Upon completion of baseline room
air measurements, animals were exposed to a 5% CO2 gas mixture for 30 minutes. After
the 5% CO2 exposure, animals were re-exposed to room air and monitored.
[0272]     As shown in FIG. 11, compared to vehicle-treated animals, Compound C treated
animals had significantly higher tidal volume at baseline and at recovery after a 30 minute
exposure to a 5% CO2 gas mixture.
[0273]     While some embodiments have been shown and described, various modifications
and substitutions may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the
invention. For example, for claim construction purposes, it is not intended that the claims
set forth hereinafter be construed in any way narrower than the literal language thereof, and
it is thus not intended that exemplary embodiments from the specification be read into the
claims. Accordingly, it is to be understood that the present invention has been described by
way of illustration and not limitations on the scope of the claims.
[0274]     The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
                                                -82-

acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates
[0275]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of
integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
                                               -83-

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTIO ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A method for improving diaphragm function in a patient in need thereof, comprising
administering to the patient an effective amount of a skeletal muscle troponin activator.
2.      A method for increasing the function, activity, efficiency, sensitivity to calcium, or
time to fatigue of skeletal muscle in the diaphragm of a patient in need thereof, comprising
administering to the patient an effective amount of a skeletal muscle troponin activator.
3.      The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the patient suffers from diaphragmatic atrophy.
4.      The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the patient suffers from a disease or condition
selected from ventilator-induced diaphragmatic weakness or atrophy, steroid-induced
diaphragmatic atrophy, hemidiaphragm paralysis, fetal hydrops, pleural effusion, botulinum
poisoning, organophosphate poisoning, Guillain-Barre syndrome, phrenic nerve dysfunction,
asthma, heart failure, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), spinal muscular atrophy (SMA),
and muscular dystrophy.
5.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the patient is in use of mechanical
ventilation.
6.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the patient undertakes an intense
physical activity or is in an environment with a reduced partial pressure of oxygen in the air.
7.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the patient has a forced vital
capacity (FVC) lower than about 75% of predicted of healthy individual in similar conditions,
or the patient shows evidence of increased work of breathing indicative of reduced
diaphragm function.
8.      A method for increasing the function, activity, efficiency, force, sensitivity to calcium,
or time to fatigue of a diaphragm skeletal muscle fiber, comprising contacting the fiber with
an effective amount of a skeletal muscle troponin activator.
                                               -84-

9.      The method of claim 2 or 8, wherein the skeletal muscle is fast skeletal muscle.
10.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the skeletal muscle troponin
activator is a chemical entity selected from compounds of Formula A and compounds of
Formula B:
 R          N         N                R4        N          H
                                                            N
                              OH                                     O
  R              N                      R        NN
                          R2                                     R2
        Formula A                            Formula B
and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein:
        R1 is alkenyl or alkynyl;
        R4 is hydrogen; and
        R2 is selected from 3-pentyl, 4-heptyl, 4-methyl-1-morpholinopentan-2-y isobutyl,
                cyclohexyl, cyclopropyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, isopropyl, 1-hydroxybutan-2yl,
                tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl, 1-methoxybutan-2-yl, 1-aminobutan-2-yl, and
                1-morpholinobutan-2-yl;
        provided that R1 is not hex-1 -enyl.
11.     The method of claim 9, wherein R1 is selected from butenyl, propenyl, vinyl, and
ethynyl.
12.     The method of claim 11, wherein R1 is selected from isobuten-1 -yl, (Z)-propen-1 -yl,
(E)-propen-1-yl, propen-2-yl, vinyl, and ethynyl.
13.     The method of claim 11, wherein R1 is ethynyl.
14.     The method of any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein R2 is selected from 3-pentyl,
4-heptyl, 4-methyl-1-morpholinopentan-2-yl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, isopropyl,
1-hydroxybutan-2-yl, tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl, 1-methoxybutan-2-yl, 1-aminobutan-2-yl, and
1-morpholinobutan-2-yl.
                                               -85-

15.    The method of claim 14, wherein R2 is selected from 3-pentyl, 4-heptyl, isobutyl,
sec-butyl, tert-butyl, isopropyl, and 1-hydroxybutan-2-yl.
16.    The method of claim 15, wherein R2 is selected from 3-pentyl, 4-heptyl, isobutyl,
sec-butyl, tert-butyl, and isopropyl.
17.    The method of claim 10, wherein the compound of Formula A is selected from:
       1-(ethyl propyl)-6-ethynyli midazo[4,5-b]pyrazi n-2-ol;
       1-[(1 R)-1 -(morpholin-4-ylmethyl)propyl]-6-ethynylimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       (E)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       (E)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       (E)-1 -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       (E)-1 -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       (E)-1 -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       (E)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       (Z)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       (Z)-1 -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       (Z)-1 -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       (Z)-1 -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       (Z)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -ynyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
       1-(ethylpropyl)-6-vinylimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol; and
       1-(ethylpropyl)-6-(1 -methylvinyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
18.    The method of claim 10, wherein the compound of Formula B is selected from:
       6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
       (R)-6-ethynyl-1 -(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
       (E)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
       (E)-1 -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
                                                -86-

        (E)-1 -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
        (E)-1 -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
        (E)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
        (Z)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
        (Z)-1 -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
        (Z)-1 -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
        (Z)-1 -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
        (Z)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
        1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -ynyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
        6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
        1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-vinyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one; and
        1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -en-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
19.     The method of claim 10, wherein the chemical entity is selected from
1-(ethyl propyl)-6-ethynyli midazo[4,5-b]pyrazi n-2-ol,
6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol, and
6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.
20.     The method of claim 10, wherein the chemical entity is
6-bromo-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
21.     The method of claim 10, wherein the chemical entity is
1-(ethyl propyl)-6-ethynyli midazo[4,5-b]pyrazi n-2-ol or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
22.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the skeletal muscle troponin
activator is a chemical entity selected from compounds of Formula I:
                                                 -87-

                         R1
         R2 -1xN
                                               9
                                          (CR8 R )m         R7
                         31         ~
              R           N4        N
                                                  RR5    R6
                               Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1_ alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc,
ORa, NRbRc, C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R2 is selected from C3_ cycloalkyl, C3_ cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl and NRbRc,
wherein each of the C3_ cycloalkyl, C3_ cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH2)nORa,
(CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2 )nOC(O)ORa, (CH2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(O)NR bRc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(S) Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nNRdSO 2 NRbRc, (CH2)nC(O)Ra, (CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2)nC(O)NRb Rc,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc, (CH2)nC(NRe)NRRc, (CH2 )nSRa,
(CH 2 )nS(O)Ra,  (CH2)nSO 2Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NRbRc, C1_ alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2 )nC6 _10 aryl and
(CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_ alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2)nC3_ cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2 )nC6 _10 aryl and (CH2)n5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
        R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1_ alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbRc, ORa, NRbRc, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R4 is selected from hydrogen, C1_ alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbRc and SO 2 Ra;
        R5 and R6 are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen, C1_ alkyl and
C1_6 haloalkyl;
                                                -88-

         or alternatively, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are bound
form a group selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NRbRC, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1_6 alkyl and C1_6
haloalkyl;
         R7 is selected from C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, each optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra,
OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRbRc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR bRc, NRdC(S) Ra, N RdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc, NRdC(NRe)NRbRc,
NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa,
C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and
5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf
substituents;
         R8 and R9, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
halogen and C1_6 alkyl;
         X is selected from a bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH 2)pC(O)(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pO(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2 )pS(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)O(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pOC(O)(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2 )pNRdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2 )pNRdSO 2 (CH 2)q-, and -(CH 2)pSO 2 NRd(CH 2)q-;
         or alternatively, X, R2 and R , together with the carbon atoms to which they are
bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms selected
from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally containing one or more double bonds, and
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
         Ra, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10
                                                 -89-

membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8
cycloalkyl, C38 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
        Rb and Rc, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen, C1_6
alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C38 cycloalkyl, C38 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl, 5-10
membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, C(O)OR9, C(O)NR'Ri and S2R9, wherein each of the C16
alkyl, C26 alkenyl, C26 alkynyl, C38 cycloalkyl, C38 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
        Rd, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen and C1_ alkyl;
        Re, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, OH,
C1_ alkoxy,   C1_ alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
        Rf, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OR', OC(O)R,
OC(O)OR, OC(O)NR'Ri, NR'Ri, NRdC(O)R', NRdC(O)OR, NRdC(O)NR'Ri,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR'Ri, NRdC(S)R', NRdC(S)OR, NRdC(S)NR'Ri, NRdC(NRe)NR'Ri,
NRdS(O)R', NRdSO 2 R', NRdSO 2NR'R, C(O)R, C(O)OR, C(O)NR'Ri, C(S)R', C(S)OR,
C(S)NR'R, C(NRe)NR'Ri, SR', S(O)R, SO 2Rh, SO 2NR'Rj, C1_ alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C26 alkynyl, C3_ cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1_ alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_ cycloalkyl, C3_ cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and
5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk
substituents;
        or two Rf substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon atom
to which they are both bound, form a group selected from carbonyl, C3_ cycloalkyl and 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl;
        R9, at each occurrence, is independently selected from C1_ alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl,
phenyl, naphthyl, and C711 aralkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C1_ alkoxy, C1_ alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
                                                 -90-

        Rh, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8
cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk substituents;
        R' and Ri, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen, C1_6
alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl, 5-10
membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, and C(O)OR9, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl,
C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3_8 cycloalkyl, C3_8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C711 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN,
OH, C1_6 alkoxy, C1_6 alkyl and C1_6 haloalkyl;
        Rk, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OH, C1_6
alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), N(C1 6_ alkyl) 2, NHC(O)C 1 _6 alkyl, NHC(O)C7 1 1 aralkyl,
NHC(O)OC 1 _6 alkyl, NHC(O)C        7 11 aralkyl, OC(O)C1-6 alkyl, OC(O)C7-11 aralkyl, OC(O)OC1-6
alkyl, OC(O)OC7-11 aralkyl, C(O)C1-6 alkyl, C(O)C7-11 aralkyl, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl, C(O)OC7-11
aralkyl, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, and C2-6 alkynyl, wherein each C1_6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, and C711 aralkyl substituent is optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3
substituents selected from OH, C1_6 alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), N(C1 _6 alkyl) 2, NHC(O)C 1 _6
alkyl, NHC(O)C7 11 aralkyl, NHC(O)OC 1 _6 alkyl, and NHC(O)OC7 11 aralkyl;
        or two Rk substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon atom
to which they are both bound, form a carbonyl group;
        m is 0, 1 or 2;
        n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2;
        p is 0, 1 or 2; and
        q is 0, 1 or 2.
23.     The method of claim 22, wherein the chemical entity is of Formula V(a) or V(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                   -91-

                       R1          Rm      Rn
       R2                    N
            R3         N          N          RT
                                  I
                                  R4
                     Formula V(a)
                               R1
               R2                   N       R8     R9
                   R3          N          N
                                          I
                                          R4
or                                               Rm   Rn
                     Formula V(b)
wherein Rm and R" are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen and C1_ alkyl.
24.    The method of claim 22 or 23, wherein X is a bond.
25.    The method of claim 24, wherein the chemical entity is of Formula XII(a), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                          R1
                R2
                               N
               R3         N         N(CR8 R9 )m
                                      R4R
                                                    5  R6
                             Formula XII(a).
                                              -92-

26.     The method of claim 22, wherein the chemical entity is
1-(2-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)-1 H-pyrr
ole-3-carboxamide.
27.     The method of claim 22, wherein the chemical entity is
3-(2-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-f luoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)
benzamide.
                                                  -93-

                                                <removed-apn>                       <removed-date>
                                                                            2+
                                            % Force at fixed [Ca ]
                                            Compared to Maximum
                  10
                          -9            0          50                 100
                  10
                          -8
                  10
                          -7
                  10
                          -6
-1/11-
         FIG. 1
                  10
                          -5
                  10
                          -4
                                                                       Psoas
                       Compound A (M)                     Diaphragm

<removed-date>
                                                        Skinned Diaphragm
                                                      Force - Ca2+ relationship
<removed-apn>
                                           120
              % of Basal Maximal Tension
                                                                                                    Vehicle (1% DMSO)
                                           100                                                      0.5 M Compound B
                                            80                                                      1 M Compound B
                                                                                                    10 M Compound B
                                            60
                                            40
                                            20
                                             0
                                             10 - 8    10 - 7        10 - 6       10 - 5   10 - 4
                                                                Log [Ca2+] (M)
                                                                                 FIG. 2
                                                                                  -2/11-

<removed-date>
                                                      Force - Ca2+ relationship
<removed-apn>
                                           120
              % of Basal Maximal Tension
                                           100                                              Vehicle 1% DMSO (n=5)
                                            80                                              0.1 M Compound C
                                                                                            1 M Compound C
                                            60
                                                                                            10 M Compound C
                                            40
                                            20
                                             0
                                             10 - 8    10 - 7        10 - 6        10 - 5   10 - 4
                                                                Log [Ca2+] (M)
                                                                          FIG. 3
                                                                          -3/11-

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIG. 4A            FIG. 4B
              FIG. 4C            FIG. 4D
                        -4/11-

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
-5/11-   FIG. 5

<removed-date>
                                           Diaphragm Force/Frequency Relationship
<removed-apn>
                                             * - 5 M vs. Veh
              % of Maximal Tension
                                             ** - 10 M vs. Veh
                                     100     p < 0.05                                           Vehicle
                                                                  **                            5 M Compound B
                                                                 *
                                                         **                                     10 M Compound B
                                                         *
                                      50           **
                                                   *
                                             **
                                       0
                                            5     10    20    30       40   60   80    0    0
                                                                                      10   15
                                                  Frequency of Stimulation (Hz)
                                                                            FIG. 6
                                                                            -6/11-

<removed-date>
                                             Force during Fatigue Test
<removed-apn>
                                   200
                                                                           Vehicle (n=12)
              Normalized Tension
                                                                           10uM Compound B (n=7)
                                   150                                     5uM Compound B (n=6)
                                   100
                                   50
                                    0
                                         0        200                400                    600
                                                        Time (sec)
                                                    FIG. 7
                                                    -7/11-

<removed-date>
                                        120           Sham (n=10)                            * p < 0.05
                                                      Sham + 30 M Compound D (n=9)
              % of Maximum Sham Force
                                        100
                                        80                           *
<removed-apn>
                                        60
                                                            *
                                        40
                                                  *
                                        20
                                          0
                                              5        10       20        30       40   50   60     80
                                                            Frequency of Stimulation (Hz)
                                                                         FIG. 8A
                                        120           LAD (n=10)                              * p < 0.05
                                                      LAD + 30 <U+2701>M Compound D (n=10)
              % of Maximum Sham Force
                                        100
                                        80                                     *
                                                                     *
                                        60
                                                            *
                                        40
                                                  *
                                        20
                                          0
                                              5        10       20        30       40   50   60     80
                                                            Frequency of Stimulation (Hz)
                                                                         FIG. 8B
                                                                         -8/11-

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                        Skinned Diaphragm
                                                      Force - Ca2+ relationship
              % of Basal Maximal Tension
                                           120
                                           100
                                            80
                                            60                                             SHAM (n=7)
                                                                                           SHAM + 3 M Compound D (n=8)
                                            40                                             LAD (n=7)
                                                                                           LAD + 3 M Compound D (n=6)
                                            20
                                             0
                                             10 - 8    10 - 7        10 - 6       10 - 5   10 - 4
                                                                Log [Ca2+] (M)
                                                                              FIG. 9
                                                                              -9/11-

<removed-date>
                                                   WT + 1 M Compound C
                                             120
              % of Vehicle Maximal Tension
                                                    WT + Vehicle
                                                    SOD + 3 M Compound C
<removed-apn>
                                             100   SOD + 1 M Compound C
                                                    SOD + Vehicle
                                              80
                                              60
                                              40
                                              20
                                               0
                                                   5     10      20        30   40   50   60   80
                                                         Frequency of Stimulation (Hz)
                                                                   FIG. 10
                                                                   -10/11-

                                                    <removed-apn>                           <removed-date>
                                          Tidal Volume (ml/breath)
                    B                   0.0   0.1   0.2    0.3                 0.4
                        as
                           e   lin
                                   e
                    B
                        as
                           e                               *
                               lin
                                   e
                        5%
                               C
                                   O
                                    2
                        5%                                                         ***
                               C
                                   O
                                    2
                    R
                        ec
                           o   ve
                                  ry
                    R
                        ec
-11/11-   FIG. 11          o   ve                           **
                                  ry
                                                             Vehicle
                                                             10 mg/kg Compound C

