 A mechanism (1)for loading or unloading a boat onto a trailer, including
a first roller assembly (2)comprising at least one roller (9) having a longitudinal
axis, wherein the first roller assembly (2) is pivotally mounted (4) so as to allow
the orientation of the longitudinal axis to change,
a second roller (3) assembly comprising at least one roller (9) having a
longitudinal axis, wherein the second roller assembly is pivotally mounted (4) so
as to allow the orientation of the second roller assembly's longitudinal axis to
change,
a drive mechanism, wherein the drive mechanism comprises:
         a hydraulic drive motor (11) connected to the at least one roller of the
         first roller assembly,
         a hydraulic pump (12) connected to the hydraulic drive motor (11),
         wherein operation of the hydraulic pump (12) causes the drive motor (11)
         to rotate and thereby rotate the roller of the first roller assembly (2) about
         its longitudinal axis.

                                    A LOADING MECHANISM
TECHNICAL FIELD
The present invention relates to a loading mechanism.
BACKGROUND ART
Trailers are used to store and transport boats.
The loading and unloading of a boat onto the trailer is facilitated by rollers mounted on the
trailer. The boat is moved over the rollers to move it onto or off from (load/unload) the
trailer.
The simplest mechanical way to load or unload a boat is to push it. However, significant
strength is required to move a heavy boat over rollers. This means that many boat users
may struggle to push a boat so as to load and unload it from a trailer.
Winches are often used to drag boats out of the water, over rollers, and thereby onto the
trailer. However, these can be fiddly to use. It is necessary to align the boat with the trailer
and secure the winch rope to the front of the boat. This can be difficult to achieve. In
addition, a boat user often gets wet which many people wish to avoid.
Furthermore, manual winches still require strength or effort to load the boat. Again, not all
boat users possess sufficient strength to load the boat.
A further problem of many boat trailers is that these must be submerged in water in order
for a boat to be loaded onto the trailer. Exposure of the trailer to water, and in particular
salt water, can accelerate the rate of rusting of the trailer and its components.
Automatic boat trailers are known and an example is described in PCT Application No.
2004/000667. The device disclosed by this patent includes a plurality of rollers spaced
apart along a boat trailer's length, and located approximately in line with the centre line of
the trailer. Those rollers are aligned along the centre of the trailer. The rollers are
connected by a chain drive mechanism so that a motor can rotate all of the rollers.
However, this arrangement requires that a person accurately aligns a boat with the rollers.
This often can be logistically difficult to achieve. It can also result in the person getting wet
- again something which may wish to be avoided.
A further issue with the boat trailer disclosed by PCT Application No. 2004/000667 is that
the chain drive mechanism has exposed moving parts such as the drive chain. Those parts
                                                  -4

may be susceptible to rusting, which can be accelerated due to exposure to salt water or
other damage.
That chain drive mechanism may also pose a safety risk due to the exposed/moving parts.
Yet a further problem of the boat trailer disclosed in this patent is that the rollers struggle to
transfer sufficient force to the boat to efficiently move that onto and off from a trailer. This
is a result of the position of the rollers, and that they are fixed with respect to the trailer.
A further type of boat trailer is disclosed by New Zealand Patent No. 547569. This includes
a Y shaped frame with a draw bar to engage a corresponding coupling on a vehicle. A 'U'
shaped frame sits inside and is pivotably mounted to the Y shaped frame. A pair of swivel
arms is configured to move the U shaped frame so as to raise and lower a boat with respect
to the Y shaped frame.
The device of New Zealand Patent No. 547569 was designed to facilitate launching of boats
in shallow water. However, this type of boat trailer cannot easily be used with launching
boats on inclined launching areas such as boat ramps.
Furthermore, the boat trailer of Patent No. 547569 requires submersion of the trailer in
water. As discussed above, such submersion can lead to wear and tear or rusting of the
components.
It is therefore an objective of the present invention to address the foregoing problems or at
least to provide the public with a useful choice.
All references, including any patents or patent applications cited in this specification are
hereby incorporated by reference. No admission is made that any reference constitutes
prior art. The discussion of the references states what their authors assert, and the
applicants reserve the right to challenge the accuracy and pertinency of the cited
documents. It will be clearly understood that, although a number of prior art publications
are referred to herein, this reference does not constitute an admission that any of these
documents form part of the common general knowledge in the art, in New Zealand or in any
other country.
Throughout this specification, the word "comprise", or variations thereof such as
"comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element,
integer or step, or group of elements integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other
element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
                                                   n

It is an object of the present invention to address the foregoing problems or at least to
provide the public with a useful choice.
Further aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
ensuing description which is given by way of example only.
DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a loading mechanism,
including
at least two roller assemblies,
at least one mounting for the at least two roller assemblies,
a drive mechanism configured to rotate the at least two roller assemblies,
characterised in that
in use the drive assembly rotates the at least two roller assemblies so as to move an object,
and wherein
that as the weight of the object applies pressure to the at least two rollers assemblies the
mounting allows the roller assemblies to move so as to change the orientation of at least
two of the roller assemblies relative to each other.
According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a kitset of parts,
including
at least two roller assemblies,
at least one mounting for the at least two roller assemblies,
a drive mechanism,
characterised in that
when assembled and in use, the drive mechanism rotates the at least two roller assemblies
so as to move an object, and wherein as the weight of the object applies pressure to the at
least two roller assemblies the mounting allows the roller assemblies to move so as to
change the orientation of at least two of the roller assemblies relative to each other.
According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a loading method,
wherein the method uses a loading mechanism including at least two roller assemblies, a
                                                n

drive mechanism, and at least one mounting for the roller assemblies,
the method including the steps of:
      (a) using the drive mechanism to rotate the at least two roller assemblies so as to move
          the object, and wherein the weight of the object applies pressure to the roller
          assemblies so as to cause the roller assemblies to move and thereby change the
          orientation of at least two of the roller assemblies relative to each other.
Throughout the present specification, reference to the term "loading mechanism" should be
understood as meaning an assembly to move an object on to or off from a cradle.
The term "cradle" refers to a plurality of components that can support an object.
The cradle has a front end, a back end, and a center line extending along its length.
Reference to the terms "front end" and "backward end" are arbitrary, and made with
reference to the normal direction of loading an object onto the cradle of a preferred
embedment to the present invention.           These references should not be seen as anyway
limiting on the scope of the present invention.
The cradle may also include supplementary rollers. In-use these assist moving the object
onto or off from the cradle. The supplementary rollers may also define the cradle.
In a preferred embodiment the present invention relates to a loading mechanism for objects
with a width and/or shape which varies along its length.
In a particularly preferred embodiment the present invention relates to a loading mechanism
for use in loading and unloading boats onto a cradle on a trailer. Accordingly, reference
herein will be made to use of the loading mechanism with boats and trailers.
However, the foregoing should not be seen as limiting on the scope of the present
invention. It is also envisaged that the loading mechanisms can be used with loading boats
onto objects other than trailers such as a dry dock berth or non-trailer cradles.
It is also envisaged that the loading mechanisms according to the present invention may be
utilised in applications such as loading and unloading of jet skis, or loading and unloading of
heavy objects such as containers.

Preferably, the boats with which the present invention is used have a centre line. The boat
is symmetrical (a mirror image) about the centre line.        However, the boat's width and
therefore its shape varies along the length of the boat. This is a common design feature of
boats and is as should be understood by one skilled in the art.
Throughout the present specification reference to the term "roller assembly" should be
understood as meaning rotatable components. In use, a roller assembly rotates so as to
move a boat in a direction corresponding to the direction of rotation.
In a particularly preferred embodiment, the present invention includes at least two roller
assemblies spaced apart across the width of a trailer so as to be on either side of the centre
line of the cradle. Therefore, in-use the two roller assemblies are on either side of the
centre line of a boat with which the loading mechanism is to be used.
The inventors have discovered that having roller assemblies which in use are on either side
of the boat's centre line provides a number of advantages.             For instance, the roller
assemblies are better positioned to engage the boat's hull as the boat approaches the
trailer. This enables the roller assemblies to act as an aligning mechanism, which moves
the boat towards, or into, an optimum position. When the boat is in the optimum position
the roller assemblies can better apply force to the boat to load that onto the trailer.
It is also envisaged that the present invention may include a plurality of roller assemblies
spaced apart along the length of the trailer. Therefore the foregoing should not be seen as
limiting on the scope of the present invention.
In a preferred embodiment a roller assembly may be a plurality of individual rollers. The
rollers may be mounted on a common axle or otherwise coaxial with each other.
However, it is also envisaged that a roller assembly could be a single (integral) roller.
Therefore the foregoing should not be seen as limiting on the scope of the present
invention.

Throughout the present specification reference to the term "drive mechanism" should be
understood as meaning a component that is configured to rotate a roller assembly.
In a preferred embodiment a drive mechanism includes at least one motor connected to a
roller assembly.
In a particularly preferred embodiment the drive mechanism includes a hydraulic drive
system comprising a hydraulic pump configured to drive rotation of a hydraulic motor.
However, the forgoing should not be seen as limiting on the scope of the present invention
and alternatives are envisaged, including one electric motor per roller assembly or a
pneumatic drive system includes a primary drive that powers a plurality of motors.
In a preferred embodiment, the drive mechanism is configured to rotate the rollers at a rate
of between 6 - 15 revolutions per minute, and more preferably 10 revolutions per minute.
The inventor has identified that this range of rotating rates for the rollers is particularly
advantageous in ensuring that the present invention works successfully. Without being
limited the inventors believes that these rates of rotation help to ensure that the rollers are
better able to engage the boat hull surface to transfer force to the boat hull (which is
necessary to move the boat).       If the rollers rotate too quickly then they slip over the boat
hull. If the rollers rotate to slowly then the time taken to load and unload the boat onto the
trailer is too long.
It should also be appreciated that the roller diameter has an effect on the rate of rotation
required to move a boat onto and off from the trailer within a useful timeframe. Accordingly,
the forgoing should not be seen as limiting on the scope of the present invention.
In a preferred embodiment the drive mechanism includes a square drive.
Throughout the present specification reference to the term "square drive" should be
understood as meaning a non-circular axle.                In use, the axle is disposed in a

correspondingly shaped aperture in a roller.
The inventor's have found that the square drive provides a particularly efficient way to
transfer force from motors to the rollers. This is beneficial in helping to reduce the
complexity of parts used in the drive assemblies and minimising the weight of the present
invention. Further, the square drive may reduce slippage of the rollers on the axle which
might occur using other configurations and arrangements.
The square drive system also helps the rollers to be held in spaced apart positions along
the axle. This is beneficial in compensating for problems due to planing lines on a boat hull.
As the rollers are spaced apart they may be better able to flex. This means that the roller
can maintain contact with the hull which may help to transfer sufficient force to the hull to
move the boat.
However, the foregoing should not be seen as limiting on the scope of the present invention
and alternatives are envisaged.
Throughout the present specification reference to the term            "mounting"  should be
understood as meaning a component to which one or more roller assembly is secured.
In a particularly preferred embodiment the present invention includes one mounting for each
roller assembly.
The mounting assembly is configured to facilitate, or otherwise allow, the roller assemblies
to move with respect to each other so as to change the orientation of the roller assemblies
with respect to each other.
In a particularly preferred embodiment a mounting facilitates one or more roller assemblies
pivoting by providing a pivot point between the roller assembly and the trailer.
However, this should not be seen as limiting as alternatives are envisaged. Those include a
mounting formed by a track and guide assembly, in which a roller assembly slides through
                                              -7

an arcuate path so as to change the orientation of the roller assemblies. This aspect of the
present invention should become clearer from the following description.
Throughout the present specification reference to the term "orientation of at least two roller
assemblies relative to each other" should be understood as meaning changing an internal
axle of two axis, wherein each of the axis extend along the length of an axle of a roller
assembly. However, the foregoing should not be seen as limiting on the scope of the
present invention. Alternatives for assessing the orientation of the roller assemblies are
envisaged.
In a particularly preferred embodiment, the mountings are configured to move the roller
assemblies to a default position.
Throughout the present specification reference to the term "default position" should be
understood as meaning a position for the roller assemblies at a given angle without any
weight or pressure applied to them.
In a particularly preferred embodiment in the default position the roller assemblies form a
"V" when viewed along the length of the trailer. That shape helps the roller assemblies to
engage the forward part (bow) of a boat hull, and thereby may improve the present
invention's effectiveness at loading a boat onto a trailer.
In a preferred embodiment, in the default position the internal angle of the "V" between the
rollers is in the range of substantially 400 - 500, and more preferably substantially 450.
In a preferred embodiment the mountings are configured to allow the roller assemblies to
pivot so that the angle between the roller assemblies is substantially 1800 e.g. the
rollers/axles are substantially parallel. This range of motion helps the roller assemblies to
maintain contact with the boat hull as it moves onto or off from the trailer. Therefore the
range of motion helps to account for changes in the shape or width of the boat, and thereby
may improve the present invention's efficiency.
                                                 n

In addition, the roller assemblies may be better able to transfer force to the boat hull e.g.
there is a greater contact between the surface of the roller assembly and the boat hull than
would have occurred were the roller assemblies held in a fixed position with respect to each
other.
The inventors have also found that the preferred range of angles is useful to facilitate use of
the present invention with a range of different boats differing in the shape and configuration
of their respective hulls.
However, the foregoing should not be seen as limiting on the scope of the present
invention.
In a preferred embodiment, rollers according to the present invention have a tread on their
contact surface.
The tread may improve the roller's ability to grip a boat hull and therefore transfer force to
the boat hull to move this on to or off from the cradle.
In addition, the tread provides channels to facilitate moving of water. This feature may also
assist in the rollers maintaining contact with and transferring force to the boat hull. The
function of the tread is similar to the function of a tread in vehicle tires as should be known
to one skilled in the art.
However, the inventors have surprisingly found that use of rollers having a tread is
particularly beneficial to function of the loading mechanism according to the present
invention. This is surprising as existing industry wisdom is that rollers should preferably be
smooth.
However, the foregoing should not be seen as limiting on the scope of the present
invention, and it is also envisaged that rollers according to the present invention preferably
have a substantially cylindrical shape. The rollers therefore have a long and round contact
surface. That surface can help in smoothly loading a boat onto or off from a trailer by
                                                r%

providing a large contact surface which can abut a boat hull.
In a particularly preferred embodiment the rollers may have an overhang.
Reference through the present specification to the term "overhang" should be understood
as meaning that the contact surface of the roller is wider than the main body of the roller.
This enables the rollers to flex or deform when under pressure in use. Therefore the roller
may be able to wrap around, or deform to account for, features of shape in the boat hull.
For instance, many boats have planning lines, being ridges extending along the boat's
length.   That the roller can flex enables it to maximise the surface area of the roller in
contact with boat hull. This helps to maximise the transfer of rotational force to the boat hull
and may improve the present invention's efficiency.
However, the foregoing should not be seen as limiting on the scope of the present invention
and alternatives are envisaged including rollers that have a uniform cross section, are solid,
or where the main body is wider than the contact surface.
In a preferred embodiment where the rollers have a tread they are formed from a material
having a shore hardness in the range of substantially 40 to 80.
In a particularly preferred embodiment where the rollers have a tread are made from a
material having a shore hardness of substantially 45.
The inventors have identified that the hardness of the materials from which the rollers are
made can have a significant effect on the invention's effectiveness. It is believed that this is
because the rollers need to be resilient enough to transfer the force of rotation to the boat
hull. However, the rollers must also be able to deform to the shape of the boat hull and
therefore cannot be too hard.
Alternatively, if the roller is too soft then it is likely to be ripped or damaged through contact
with the boat hull.

It is also envisaged that in embodiments where the rollers have a smooth cylindrical contact
surface that they made be made from a material having a shore hardness in the range of
substantially 50 to 80, or more preferably substantially 70.
However the foregoing should not be seen as limiting on the scope to the present invention
as the rollers can be made from materials having a hardness outside of the preferred range.
It is also envisaged that the rollers could be made from a composite of two or more
materials. In such an embodiment the contact surface may have a hardness in the range
described herein, whereas the main body of the roller may be outside of that range.
It should be appreciated from the foregoing that the present invention provides a number of
advantages over the prior art. These may include any or all of the following:
      *  The kit set may be easily retrofitted to an existing trailer.
      *  The movement of the rollers relative to each other as they rotate so as to move a
         boat helps to keep the rollers in contact with the boat's hull. Therefore the present
         invention is better able to transfer force to the boat and is better able to move them.
      *  Is better able to automatically load and unload a boat, and can handle the increase
         in weight as the boat leaves the water.
      *  Provides a self aligning mechanism to maneuver a boat into a position in which it
         can be loaded onto the trailer.
      *  Is cost effective to manufacture.
      *  Reliable.
      *  Easily accounts for different boat hull shapes and can therefore be used with a
         variety of different boats.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS

Further aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following description
which is given by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings in
which:
Figure 1A               is a front perspective view of a trailer incorporating a loading
                mechanism        according to the present invention in the default position;
Figure 1B               is a rear perspective view of Figure 1A;
Figure 2A               is a perspective view of a loading mechanism according to the present
                                  invention;
Figure 2B               is a view of Figure 2A with the roller assemblies in a different position
                to                        Figure 2A;
 Figures 3A - 3D        are schematics showing loading of a boat onto a trailer using a
                                  loading mechanism according to the present invention;
Figure 4A - 4C          are end on views of schematics showing Figure 3;
Figure 5A               is an end perspective view of a roller according to the present
                invention;
Figure 5B               is an end on view of Figure 5A;
Figure 6A               is a first close up perspective view of a section of loading mechanism;
Figure 6B               is a second close up perspective view of the section of a loading
                                  mechanism shown in Figure 6A.
BEST MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
Aspects of the present invention have been described by way of example only and it should
be appreciated that modifications and additions may be made thereto without departing
from the scope thereof.
There is provided a loading mechanism generally indicated as (1). The loading mechanism
(1) is secured to a boat trailer (1A).
The loading mechanism (1) may be sold as a kitset of parts including instructions on how to
assemble the loading mechanism (1) to the boat trailer (1A). The instructions (not shown in
the Figures) can include any or all of the steps discussed herein.
Referring first to Figures 1A, 1B, and Figures 2A, 2B.
                                                  -4 n

The roller assemblies (2, 3) can pivot with respect to each other so as to change their
orientation with respect to each other. In the embodiment shown in the Figures, the roller
assemblies (2, 3) can pivot such that they are substantially parallel, with their axis (Y)
aligned. This is important to roller assemblies (2, 3) transferring sufficient force to the boat
(18) to move it onto or off from the trailer (1A).
The loading mechanism includes two roller assemblies (2, 3). Each of the roller assemblies
(2, 3) are identical, and therefore only roller assembly (2) will be described. However, in the
drawings, like references refer to like components.
Roller assembly (2) includes a mounting arm (4) which pivotally secures the roller assembly
(2) to a trailer (5).  The mounting arm (4) may be secured to a wobble roller mount as is
known to one skilled in the art.
Roller assembly (2) is free to pivot about pivot point (6). The mounting arm is configured so
that the weight of the roller assembly (2) causes it to pivot about pivot point (6) such that an
inner end (7) of roller assembly (2) is lower than an outer end (8).        Pivoting of the roller
assemblies (2, 3) about pivot point (6) enables their orientation with respect to each other.
The orientation of the roller assemblies (2, 3) with respect to each other is best understood
with reference to an imaginary axis indicated as (Y) in Figures 2A and 2B. The imaginary
axis (Y) extends along the length of the axle (10).
The internal angle (X) between the axis (Y) of the roller assemblies (2, 3) changes as the
roller assemblies (2, 3) pivot about pivot point (6).
Roller assembly (2) has a plurality of rollers (9) that are each mounted on an axle (10).
The rollers (9) are spaced apart from each other along the length of axle (10).
Spacing the rollers (9) apart allows them to flex independently of each other. Therefore, the
rollers (9) may be better able to accommodate changes in shape of the boat hull (20), or
plaining lines (23) which the rollers (9) may touch when moving a boat onto or off from a
trailer (1A).
In addition, the rollers (9) are able to be easily cleaned. This can prevent damage to the
rollers (9) by particulate matter (grit) or rusting caused by salt water.
A drive motor (11) is secured to mounting arm (4) and operatively coupled to an axle (10).
In use, the drive motor (11) rotates and thereby causes the axle (10) to rotate. This in turn
rotates rollers (9) - as will be discussed below.
                                                  -4 n

Drive motors (11) are connected to a hydraulic pump (12) which is mounted on the trailer
(1A).
An electric motor (not shown) is mounted to the trailer and a battery (not shown).           The
battery provides a power source to drive rotation of the electric motor.
The electric motor (not shown) drives hydraulic pump (12).
Hydraulic pump (12) is connected to drive motors (11) in parallel.         Therefore, hydraulic
pump (12) applies equal driving force to drive motors (11).
The connection of hydraulic pump (12) to drive motors (11)          is such that it can control
rotation of drive motors (11)    in a clockwise or anticlockwise direction. This enables the
drive motors (11) to rotate the axles (10), and thereby the roller assemblies (2, 3), in either
a clockwise or anticlockwise direction.
A remote (not shown) is able to communicate with hydraulic pump (12) and send signals
which cause the pump (12) to engage and disengage. The remote can also tell hydraulic
pump (12) which direct in to rotate roller assemblies (2,3). This allows a user to control
rotation of roller assemblies (2, 3).
Referring now to Figures 5A and 5B which show features of one embodiment of the rollers
(9).
The rollers (9) shown in Figures 5A and 5B have a substantially cylindrical shape. Each
roller is made from polyurethane has a shore hardness of substantially 70A.
Each roller (9) has a central main body (14) and a contact surface (15).           The contact
surface (15) is longer than the main body (14). This provides an overhang indicated by (16)
whereby the contact surface (15) extends beyond the dimensions of the main body (14).
It is also envisaged that each roller (9) can have a shape and configuration generally similar
to a type, having a tread on a contact surface of the roller (9).
In Use
Referring now to Figures 3 and 4.
A vehicle (not shown) is used to position trailer (1A) with respect to a body of water (17).
Remote (not shown) is used to engage drive mechanism so that hydraulic pump (12)
rotates drive motors (11). This in turn causes roller assemblies (2, 3) to rotate.
                                               -4 A

A boat (18) is moved so that bow (19) approaches loading mechanism (1).
One or both of roller assemblies (2, 3) abut boat hull (20) on the side of the boats centre
line (21).
If the boat hull (20) is not in line with the central axis (22) of boat trailer (1A) then the force
applied to boat hull (20) moves boat (18) so as to align its centre line (21) with the central
axis (22) of the trailer (1A).
The shape and/or width of boat hull (20) which varies along its length. As boat (18) moves
onto the trailer (1A) the boat hull (20) applies pressure to roller assemblies at different
angles. This causes roller assemblies (2, 3) to pivot around pivot points (6). Inner end (7)
of roller assemblies (2, 3) moves upwards while outer ends (8) pivot downwards.
This changes the orientation of the roller assemblies (2, 3) with respect to each other.
The change in orientation of the roller assemblies (2, 3) as the boat hull (20) moves onto
trailer (1A) and is best seen in Figures 4A - 4C.
The change in angle ensures that the roller assemblies (2, 3) are better able to engage the
surface of the boat hull (20) as that moves onto trailer (1A).             Accordingly, the roller
assemblies (2, 3) are better able to transfer rotation of force to the boat. This may assist in
loading and unloading of the boat onto the trailer.
The roller assemblies (2, 3) continue rotating until the boat is moved entirely onto the trailer
(1A).
Boat hull (20) has plaining lines (23) which extend along its length. If the rollers (9) contact
the plaining lines then the rollers (9) can deform (bend) around the plaining lines (23). This
is achieved by the overhang (16) providing the roller (9) with a degree of flexibility.
The rollers (9) deforming helps to ensure that the roller assemblies (2, 3) can maintain
contact with the boat hull. This is important in ensuring that the loading mechanisms (1)
can apply sufficient force to the boat hull to move it onto the trailer (1A).
The inventors have found that one of the most difficult aspects of loading a boat onto a
trailer is moving the boat (18) when it is substantially out of the water e.g. getting the last 1
- 2 metres of the boat (18) onto the trailer (1A).      At this stage, all of the boat's weight is
bearing on the roller assemblies (2, 3).
The hydraulic pump (12) is disengaged so that roller assemblies (2, 3) stop rotating.

To unload the boat from the trailer (1A) the remote sends a signal to the pump (12). The
pump forces hydraulic fluid through the drive motors (11) in a direction which causes the
drive motor (11) to rotate axle (10) in an appropriate direction. Rotation of axle (10) causes
rollers (9) to rotate in a corresponding manner. The rollers (9) apply force to boat hull (20)
to move boat (18) with respect to the trailer (1A) and into body of water (17).
It should be appreciated that the present invention has a number of advantages over the
prior art.
The roller assemblies being laterally spaced across the width of the boat trailer (1A) is
important. Due to this configuration, the roller assemblies (2, 3) are in-use on either side of
the boat's centre line. Therefore, the roller assemblies (2, 3) are able to provide an aligning
mechanism to move a boat into an optimum position to be loaded onto the trailer.
In addition, this enables the roller assemblies to move effectively transfer force to the boat
hull so as to load and unload the boat onto the trailer (1A).
That the roller assemblies are able to move relative to each other also helps them to
maintain contact with the boat hull. Again, this is important in helping the roller assemblies
(2, 3) to transfer force to and thereby move the boat hull.
The configuration and properties of the rollers may also important in ensuring that the
invention is successful. The inventors have identified the particular ranges of hardness as
providing particular advantages.
Other advantages may include but are not limited to:
            *   Being cost effective to manufacture;
            *   Reliable and less prone to mechanical failure than existing boat trailer
                mechanisms;
            *   Can be easily retrofitted to existing boat trailers;
            *   Can be easily adapted to work with boats of different sizes, shapes, and
                dimensions.
Aspects of the present invention have been described by way of example only and it should
be appreciated that modifications and additions may be made thereto without departing
from the scope thereof as defined in the appended claims.
                                                -4 11

James & Wells ref: 307283AUDIV/60
WHAT WE CLAIM IS:
1.   A loading mechanism, including
      a first roller assembly comprising at least one roller having a longitudinal axis, wherein the
     first roller assembly is pivotally mounted so as to allow the orientation of the longitudinal
      axis to change,
      a second roller assembly comprising at least one roller having a longitudinal axis, wherein
      the second roller assembly is pivotally mounted so as to allow the orientation of the
      second roller assembly's longitudinal axis to change,
      a drive mechanism, wherein the drive mechanism comprises:
      a hydraulic drive motor connected to the at least one roller of the first roller assembly, a
      hydraulic pump connected to the hydraulic drive motor,
     wherein operation of the hydraulic pump causes the drive motor to rotate and thereby
      rotate the roller of the first roller assembly about its longitudinal axis.
2.    The loading mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein the drive mechanism further
      comprises a second hydraulic drive motor connected to the second roller assembly
      and the hydraulic pump, and wherein operation of the hydraulic pump causes the drive
      motor to rotate and thereby rotate the roller of the second roller assembly about its
      longitudinal axis.
3.    The loading mechanism as claimed in either one of claims 1 or 2, including a cradle
      having a forward end, a backward end, and a centre line, and wherein the first roller
      assembly and the second roller assembly are positioned on distal sides of the centre
      line to each other.
4.    The loading mechanism as claimed in claim 3, wherein the first roller assembly and the
      second roller assembly are positioned at or substantially towards the backward end of
      the cradle.
5.    The loading mechanism as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein at least one of
      the first roller assembly or second roller assembly includes an axle and one or more
      rollers.
6.    The loading mechanism as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the drive
      mechanism is configured to rotate the first roller assembly and/or the second roller
      assembly at a rate of between 6 to 15 revolutions per minute.
                                                    17

James & Wells ref: 307283AUDIV/60
7.    The loading mechanism as claimed in claim 6, wherein the drive mechanism is configured
      to rotate the rollers at a rate of 10 revolutions per minute.
8.    The loading mechanism as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, including a mounting that
      is configured to move the first roller assembly and/or the second roller assembly to a
      default position.
9.    The loading mechanism as claimed in claim 8 when dependent on claim 3, wherein the
      default position is a V shape when viewed along the centre line.
10.   The loading mechanism as claimed in claim 9, wherein the internal angle of the V is in the
      range substantially 40 degrees to 50 degrees.
11.   The loading mechanism as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 11, wherein the roller(s)
      have an overhang.
12.   The loading mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein the roller(s) have a shore
      hardness in the range of substantially 40 to 80.
13.   The loading mechanism as claimed in claim 12, wherein the rollers have a shore hardness
      of substantially 45.
14.  A trailer including a loading mechanism as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13.
15.  A loading method, wherein the method uses a loading mechanism as claimed in any one
      of claims 1 to 13,
     wherein the method includes the steps of:
      (a)     engaging the drive mechanism to rotate the first roller assembly so as to move an
              object.
16.  A kitset of parts, including
      a first roller assembly comprising at least one roller having a longitudinal axis, and a
      second roller assembly comprising at least one roller having a longitudinal axis,
     wherein the first roller assembly and the second roller assembly are configured to be
      pivotally mounted so as to enable the longitudinal axis of the roller of the first roller
      assembly and/or the roller of the second roller assembly to change,
      a drive mechanism comprising a hydraulic drive motor and a hydraulic pump, and
     wherein the drive motor is configured to be connected to the first roller assembly and
                                                    18

James & Wells ref: 307283AUDIV/60
      the hydraulic pump, and wherein in use operation of the hydraulic pump causes the
      hydraulic drive motor to rotate to thereby rotate the roller of the first roller assembly
      about its longitudinal axis.
17.   The kitset as claimed in claim 16, including a second hydraulic drive motor configured to
      be connected to the second roller assembly and the hydraulic pump.
18.   The kitset as claimed in either one of claims 16 or 17, wherein the first roller assembly
      and/or second roller assembly comprises an axle and at least one roller.
19.   The kitset as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 18, including a mounting configured to
      pivotally secure the first roller assembly to a trailer.
20.   The kitset as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 19, including a mounting configured to
      pivotally secure the second roller assembly to a trailer.
21.   The kitset as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 20, including instructions to assemble the
      kit set to form a loading mechanism as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14
                                                   19

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013277859, is current as of 2018-03-20 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013277859, is current as of 2018-03-20 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013277859, is current as of 2018-03-20 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013277859, is current as of 2018-03-20 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013277859, is current as of 2018-03-20 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013277859, is current as of 2018-03-20 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013277859, is current as of 2018-03-20 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013277859, is current as of 2018-03-20 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013277859, is current as of 2018-03-20 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013277859, is current as of 2018-03-20 21:00 AEST

