                                                  20
ABSTRACT
A lock cylinder having a barrel and a lock housing, the barrel having a locking cam pivotally
mounted therein, the locking cam including at least one recess on an outer periphery thereof, a
housing recess formed on an inner wall of the lock housing, a locking member that, in a locking
position, is positioned at least partly in the housing recess formed on the inner wall of the lock
housing, the at least one recess on the locking cam including a first recess on the locking cam,
the first recess being sized to enable the locking member to move out of the housing groove, the
barrel having a key slot for receiving a key, the key including a projection for causing the
locking cam to rotate to bring the first recess on the locking cam adjacent to or into alignment
with the locking member such that the locking member moves out of the housing recess and
into the first recess of the locking cam and barrel slot to thereby enable rotation of the barrel in
the lock housing.

                                                   1
LOCK AND KEY THEREFOR.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention relates to an improved lock and key for use in the improved
lock. In some embodiments, the present invention relates to a pin tumbler lock and to a key for
use in a pin tumbler lock. The lock of the present invention has enhanced security features
compared to conventional locks.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]       Pin tumbler locks are widely used in Australia and in other countries. Pin tumbler
locks typically have a cylinder assembly that includes a rotatable core or plug or barrel. The
cylinder assembly includes a housing into which the core or plug or barrel is positioned. In
some locks, such as padlocks, the housing also forms the body of the lock.
[0003]       The rotatable barrel and the housing have a series of bores formed therein. When
the lock is in the locked condition, the bores in the housing are in alignment with the respective
bores in the barrel. Each of the aligned bores carries a barrel pin and a housing pin. The barrel
pin and the housing pin contact each other at a shear point or a junction point. Springs are used
to bias the pins towards the barrel. A key slot is formed in the barrel for the key entry. Insertion
of a key having the correct notches or bits aligns the shear point of each set of the housing pins
and barrel pins with the rotational part of the barrel in the housing. Thus, insertion of the key
allows the barrel to rotate in the housing and this allows the locking mechanism to function.
When the key is withdrawn, the shear point between at least one set of housing pins and barrel
pins moves so that it is located away from the turning diameter of the barrel. This prevents
rotation of the barrel. Similarly, when an incorrect key is inserted, the shear point between at
least one set of housing pins and barrel pins is not coincident with the turning diameter of the
barrel, thereby preventing rotation of the barrel.
[0004]       Pin and tumbler locks may have a plurality of pins, with pin and tumbler locks
frequently been provided with five or six sets of barrel and housing pins. However, other
numbers of pins may be used. As the number of sets of the barrel and housing pins decreases,
the number of possible key combinations that can be set also decreases, thereby reducing
security of the lock. Lock manufacturers and locksmiths provide such locks as part of a locking
product with two or more keys for the owner of the lock to secure their property. The locks can

                                                   2
be supplied as individual units, deemed "keyed to differ" or in lots of two or more in which a
single key will open two or more locks, deemed to be "keyed alike."
[0005]       Lock manufacturers and locksmiths also build and produce a group of locks for a
customer with series of keys to accommodate the specific needs of the owner and this is
normally referred to as a system or master key system. A system or master key system can have
a series of levels or groups of keys that can operate the mechanism of the various designated
locks within the system. For example, in a unit complex having a number of different units
occupied by different occupants, each occupant may have a key that only opens the lock to their
unit. However, the superintendent of the unit complex may have a master key that opens all of
the locks to each unit. In this manner, in emergency situations, emergency services or the
superintendent can open the door to each unit. This also allows the superintendent to open a
specific door in the event that an occupant locks himself or herself out of their unit. A system or
master key system can normally be designed and manufactured to suit most types of locks that
the customer requests.
[0006]       Manufacturers and locksmiths also build lock systems and special cylinders and
barrels that have intellectual property protection on the parts of the cylinder, barrels and/or
keys. These systems are normally deemed "restricted systems." As mentioned above, the barrel
of the lock cylinder is traditionally broached with an aperture that is commonly termed the
keyhole or keyslot to accommodate the specific and unique profile shape of the key that is
milled with the required specific shape or profile to be identical to the broaching made in the
barrel. In this manner, the key can be accommodated in the barrel with a precision fit. This key
shape or design and barrel broaching may also have intellectual property protection.
[0007]       When a manufacturer or locksmith builds a lock system for a customer, that system
will normally be assigned a system number and all lock cylinders and keys produced for the
system will normally have the system number permanently stamped or marked on each cylinder
and each key. Keys might also be stamped with markings to identify the level of hierarchy or
groups of locks that key will function within the system. Keys that are part of a restricted
system are traditionally stamped with a sequential issue number to provide the system owner
with the means for controlling and recording all keys issued to key holders for their restricted
locking system.
[0008]       One particular key profile that is proven to be very popular in the United States and

                                                   3
Australia is the C4 key profile. Manufacturers of various lock brands and products have realised
that it is a key profile that is used and desired by the public and locksmiths for keying other
products to the same profile as part of that key system. The C4 key profile has now become the
benchmark key profile for most standard lock products produced in five and six pin cylinder
format for non-restricted lock systems for the Australian market.
[0009]        The cuts in the standard key (the valley) that will function the lock cylinder is
termed the bittingg." The depth variation of individual bittings in the key is normally about 9 or
10 incremental depths. The depth of individual cuts in the key is designed to match the small
precision parts or pin links that are incorporated into the lock system when it is assembled. The
possible combination of individual keys for a conventional standard five pin cylinder lock is in
excess of 25,000 and a 6 pin cylinder lock has more than 100,000 possible individual key
combinations.
[0010]        Australian patent number 666369 in the name of Master Locksmiths Association of
Australasia Limited relates to a key actuated pin and tumbler lock having enhanced security.
This lock includes a cylindrical core/barrel that is rotatable in a lock housing via a rotational
path, a plurality of pin tumblers received in bores in the core/barrel and lock housing, each bore
containing a set of pin tumblers comprising one core pin and one housing pin biased towards
the core and having a pin junction therebetween and a key slot in the core. The key is provided
with suitable bits to enable the pin junctions to align with the rotational path of the core in the
lock housing to permit the core to rotate within the housing. The lock also comprises a retaining
mechanism in the form of a spring that is biased to engage at least one of the pin tumblers and
to resist movement of the engaged pin tumbler in either direction in its respective bore until
released by insertion of a proper key. In the specific embodiment disclosed in this Australian
patent, a spring has a movable end that comes into contact with a core pin or a housing pin. If a
normal key is inserted, the spring remains in contact with the pin and the spring prevents the pin
from moving. If a special key having a lateral wing is inserted into the key slot, the wing causes
a ball to move and disengage the end of the spring with the pin. This allows the pins to move to
the junction point which, in turn, allows the lock to be operated.
[0011]        Other types of locks used in Australia include locks that have a number of rotating
discs. Each disc has a concave recess formed in it. When a proper key is inserted into the key
slot, the discs rotate such that the concave recesses of each disc come into alignment. A locking
pin can then drop into the aligned recesses to enable actuation of the lock.

                                                    4
[0012]        It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common
general knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0013]        The present invention is directed to a pin and tumbler lock which provides for
enhanced security compared to a conventional pin in tumbler lock.
[0014]        With the foregoing in view, the present invention in one form, resides broadly in a
lock cylinder having a barrel and a lock housing,
the barrel having a locking cam pivotally mounted therein,
the locking cam including an opening or a hole through which a mounting pin extends such that
the locking cam pivots about the mounting pin,
the locking cam including at least one recess on an outer periphery thereof,
a bearing that bears upon the locking cam,
a housing recess formed on an inner wall of the lock housing,
a locking member that, in a locking position, is positioned at least partly in the housing recess
formed on the inner wall of the lock housing,
the at least one recess on the locking cam including a first recess on the locking cam, the first
recess being sized to enable the locking member to move out of the housing recess,
the barrel having a key slot for receiving a key, the key including a projection,
the projection of the key contacting the bearing to thereby cause the locking cam to rotate to
bring the first recess on the locking cam adjacent to or into alignment with the locking member
such that the locking member moves out of the housing recess and into the first recess of the
locking cam to thereby enable rotation of the barrel in the lock housing.
[0015]        In one embodiment, the projection may comprise a lateral projection or a wing on
the key.
[0016]        In one embodiment, the locking cam comprises the first recess and a second recess

                                                   5
that is shallower than the first recess. In this manner, the second recess is sized to only partly
receive the locking member. In other words, the second recess is smaller in cross-section than a
cross section of the locking member. In one embodiment, the first recess and the second recess
merge into each other. In one embodiment, both the first recess and the second recess are
recessed from an outer periphery of the locking cam.
[0017]       In one embodiment, the lock cylinder comprises a plurality of locking cams.
[0018]       In one embodiment, the locking cam is pivotally mounted in the barrel, with the
locking cam being mounted about a pivot point. The locking cam may include an opening or a
hole through which a mounting pin extends such that the locking cam pivots about the
mounting pin.
[0019]       By having the locking cam being pivotally mounted in the barrel, the locking cam is
securely held in position and will be unlikely to become misaligned or stuck in use.
[0020]       In one embodiment, the locking cam is biased towards a locking position. In one
embodiment, a biasing means is located between the locking cam and an inner part of the
barrel. The biasing means may comprise a compression spring.
[0021]       In one embodiment, the first recess is larger than the second recess on the locking
cam and the first recess is located below the second recess. Throughout this specification, the
terms "above", "below", "upper" and "lower" are used in the context of the lock cylinder being
in its usual orientation.
[0022]       In one embodiment, the first recess has a depth that is approximately the same size
as or slightly larger than the width or diameter of the locking means. In one embodiment, the
second recess has a depth that is approximately half the width or diameter of the locking means.
In one embodiment, the locking cam is arranged such that when the locking cam is oriented
with the first recess being generally aligned with the housing groove, the locking member can
move completely out of the housing groove. In another embodiment, the locking cam is
arranged such that when the locking cam is oriented with the second recess being generally
aligned with the housing groove, the locking member is retained within the housing groove.
[0023]       In one embodiment, the locking means is located partly within the housing recess
and partly within the second recess of the locking cam when the locking means is in the locked
position.

                                                   6
[0024]       In one embodiment, the locking member comprises a bar. The locking member may
comprise a generally cylindrical bar. The bar may be oriented so that it is generally parallel to a
longitudinal axis of the barrel.
[0025]       In some embodiments, the locking member does not require use of the spring or
other biasing means that acts directly on the locking member to control its movement.
[0026]       The housing recess may comprise a groove. The groove in the inner wall of the
housing may comprise a groove that extends generally parallel to a longitudinal axis of the
housing or barrel. The groove may have a cross-sectional shape that is complementary to the
cross-sectional shape of the locking member. The groove may have a depth that is
approximately half the width or half the diameter of the locking member. The housing groove is
sized such that the locking member can be partly received within the housing groove in the
locked position, with the locking member also extending into the barrel when in the locked
position.
[0027]       In one embodiment, the lock cylinder further comprises a bearing that bears upon
the locking cam, the key having a projection and the projection of the key contacting the
bearing during insertion of the key into a key slot to thereby cause rotation of the locking cam.
The bearing may comprise a ball bearing. In embodiments where more than one locking cam is
used, each locking cam may be provided with this arrangement. Providing a bearing will reduce
wear on the key and on the locking cam, thereby increasing the commercial life of the lock and
resulting in a more commercially attractive product. However, it will also be appreciated that
the lock of the present invention may also be provided without such a ball bearing.
[0028]       It will be appreciated that the cylinder lock of the present invention will also include
the usual pins and tumblers to enable the lock to be locked and unlocked.
[0029]       In a further embodiment, the lock cylinder of the present invention further includes
a blocking cam pivotally mounted within the barrel, the blocking cam including at least one
recess on a periphery thereof, the at least one recess including a first recess, the first recess
being sized to enable the locking member to move out of the housing groove, the blocking cam
being movable between a locking position and an unlocked position, the blocking cam being
arranged such that the projection on the key causes the blocking cam to pivot during insertion
of the key, wherein the projection on the key includes a recessed region that, when the key is
properly inserted, is located in alignment with the blocking cam such that the blocking cam is in

                                                    7
the unlocked position, and wherein if a key having a different projection or a lock picking
element is inserted into the key slot, the blocking cam is caused to pivot by the projection or the
lock picking element so that the blocking cam is moved to the locking position.
[0030]        When the blocking cam is in the locking position, the blocking cam holds the
locking member in the housing groove (which is the locked position) and rotation of the barrel
relative to the housing is prevented. In this manner, use of an improper key having a different
projection or use of a lock picking element to move the locking cams to the unlocked position
will also cause the blocking cam to move to a locked position such that rotation of the barrel
relative to the cylinder is prevented. This makes picking the lock much more difficult.
[0031]        In one embodiment, the blocking cam is biased to an unlocked position.
[0032]        In this embodiment, it will not be possible to pick the lock by using a standard key
having bits that correspond with the pin and tumbler arrangement of the lock and inserting, for
example, a piece of wire alongside the key to cause the locking cam to move to a position
where the locking member can move to the unlocked position. If this is attempted, the one or
more blocking cams will be moved by the piece of wire, thereby causing the one or more
blocking cams to lock the barrel against rotation relative to the housing. It is only when a proper
key is inserted into the lock that the one or more blocking cams allow the barrel to rotate
relative to the lock housing.
[0033]        In one embodiment, the blocking cam comprises the first recess and a second recess
that is shallower than the first recess. The second recess is sized to only partly receive the
locking member. In other words, the second recess is smaller in cross-section than a cross
section of the locking member. In one embodiment, the first recess and the second recess merge
into each other. In one embodiment, both the first recess and the second recess are recessed
from an outer periphery of the locking cam. In this embodiment, the locking member may be
received in the first recess when the locking member is in the unlocked position and the locking
member is received in the second recess when the locking member is in the locked position.
[0034]        The "lock housing" may also be referred to as the "cylinder housing."
[0035]        It will be appreciated that the term "lock cylinder" is used to refer to the
combination of the barrel and the lock housing. The lock cylinder does not need to be
cylindrical in shape. Rather, the term "lock cylinder" is a term of the art that refers to the barrel

                                                  8
and the lock housing. In some embodiments, such as in padlocks, the lock housing will form
part of the external surface of the lock. This meaning is to be used throughout this specification,
including the claims.
[0036]       In one embodiment, the barrel has a key slot for receiving a key, the key including
the projection.
[0037]       In one embodiment, the lock cylinder is of the pin and tumbler type. The skilled
person will appreciate that, in this embodiment, the barrel and the lock housing are provided
with aligned bores and that each bore contains a barrel pin and a housing pin. A shear point is
located at the junction of the barrel pin and the housing pin in each set of pins. The pins are
biased towards the barrel, such as by use of springs. The lock is operated by a key that includes
bits that move the housing pin and the locking pin of each set such that the shear point is
positioned at the outer diameter of the barrel. When in this position, in an ordinary pin and
tumbler lock, as the shear points for each set of pins is located at the outer diameter of the
barrel, the barrel can rotate within the lock housing (if the shear points are located at a different
position, one of the housing pin or barrel pin will extend across the junction between the barrel
and the lock housing and this will jam the barrel against rotation relative to the lock housing).
However, in the lock cylinder of the present invention, it is also necessary to ensure that the
locking cam(s) be moved to an unlocked position before the barrel can be rotated relative to the
lock housing to thereby operate the lock mechanism.
[0038]       In some embodiments, the key that operates the lock may comprise two or more
projections, with each projection moving a locking cam. The two or more projections may
project from the same side of the key, or they may project from opposing sides of the key.
[0039]       In one embodiment, a slot is formed in the barrel and the locking cam is mounted in
the slot. The slot may extend transversely to a longitudinal direction of the barrel. The locking
cam may be mounted to a pivot pin extending through an opening in the locking cam. The pivot
pin may be located in a bore in the barrel. The pivot pin may be located in a bore that extends in
a direction generally parallel to a longitudinal axis of the barrel. This bore suitably extends
inwardly from a rear surface of the barrel.
[0040]       In embodiments where the lock includes a blocking cam, the blocking cam may be
mounted by a pivot pin extending through an opening in the blocking cam. The blocking cam
may be mounted in a slot formed in the barrel. The slot may comprise a transverse slot.

                                                   9
[0041]       The transverse slots formed in the barrel may extend only part way into the barrel.
[0042]       Throughout this specification the term "front of the barrel" is used to denote the end
of the barrel where the opening to the key slot can be seen and the term "rear of the barrel" is
used to denote the end of the barrel that is positioned in the lock housing and not accessible
from the outside of the lock.
[0043]       In some embodiments, the key slot is provided with an opening for receiving a key
having a projection with a contact surface for contacting the locking cam to thereby cause the
locking cam to move to a position where the locking member moves to the unlocked position.
In one embodiment, the key has a laterally extending projection that causes the locking cam to
allow the locking member to move out of the housing groove on the lock housing. The laterally
extending projection may be in the form of a wing extending from a side of a shank of the key.
In some embodiments, it will be appreciated that the contact surface of the key comes into
contact with a drive member that, in turn, drives operation of the locking cam to drive the
locking cam to a position where the locking member moves to the unlocked position. In some
embodiments, the key may have two or more laterally extending projections.
[0044]       In some embodiments, the key for actuating the lock cylinder includes bits for
moving the sets of barrel pins and housing pins in a first direction and the projection for moving
the locking cam comprises a projection extending in a different direction to the first direction.
In one embodiment, the projection for moving the locking cam comprises a projection
extending at right angles to the first direction. In one embodiment, the key moves the sets of
pins in a generally vertical direction and the projection extends in a generally horizontal
direction.
[0045]       In embodiments of the present invention, the special profile of the key with the side
projection is designed to operate the locking cam in the barrel so that it moves to a position that
allows the locking member to move to the unlocked position and permits the barrel to turn. A
lock system can be designed to have a current standard profile key that will only operate some
cylinders in the system that do not have the locking cam and locking member installed into the
barrel, whilst the special profile keys can work most or all cylinders in the system as required.
For example, in a unit complex, each unit occupant may be provided with a standard profile key
that can operate a front access gate to the unit complex and the front door to an occupant's unit.
However, there may be other areas to which the occupants of the units are not allowed access,

                                                  10
such as an enclosure housing electrical components. The locks used on the enclosure housing
electrical components can be in accordance with the present invention and the superintendent
(and possibly employees of the electricity supply company) can be provided with special profile
keys to enable them to have access to the enclosure. In this system, it will be appreciated that
the key slots of all of the barrels and the system will have openings that enable keys having
projections to be inserted therein, even if the particular lock does not include the locking cam
and locking member in the barrel. In this manner, the special profile key of the superintendent
can be inserted into all locks in the system.
[0046]       Embodiments of the present invention enable the locksmith to produce for the
system owner (A) lock products and keys, and that the end user can also source additional
products and have those products become an extended part of their own lock system with (B)
two or more levels of restricted and unrestricted keys for issue to provide access to their
property. A lock system using this product can include locks and keys on a property on level 1
keys, being non-restricted keys where the end user or person can source additional keys without
signatory control, and other locks on the same property on level 2 keys, being restricted and
controlled issue keys for access, that are only available from the originating manufacturer
locksmith of the system with a recorded signatory order. The present invention can also provide
a system with a mix of lock cylinder/s incorporated into the system that would function on
system (B) restricted keys as well as with areas or parts of the system of non-restricted key
access, whilst also providing special access to designated locks or areas functioning on the
system (A) key.
[0047]       Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[0048]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0049]       Various embodiments of the invention will be described with reference to the
following drawings, in which:
[0050]       Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a lock housing in accordance with an

                                                   11
embodiment of the present invention;
[0051]        Figure 2 shows a perspective view of a lock barrel in accordance with one
embodiment of the present invention;
[0052]        Figure 3 shows a front cross sectional view of a lock cylinder in accordance with
the present invention, with a locking cam being shown in a locked position;
[0053]        Figure 4 shows a front cross sectional view that is similar to that shown in figure 3,
but with the locking cam in an unlocked position;
[0054]        Figure 5 is an enlarged view of the lock barrel and locking cam as shown in figure
4;
[0055]        Figure 6 shows a front cross sectional view of a lock cylinder in accordance with
the present invention, with a blocking cam being shown in an unlocked position;
[0056]        Figure 7 shows a front cross sectional view that is similar to that shown in figure 6,
but with the blocking cam in a locked position; and
[0057]        Figure 8 shows an enlarged view of the lock barrel and blocking cam as shown in
figure 6.
[0058]         DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0059]        It will be appreciated that the drawings have been provided for the purposes of
illustrating preferred embodiments of the present invention. Therefore, it will be understood
that the present invention should not be considered to be limited solely to the features as shown
in the attached drawings.
[0060]        Figure 1 shows a lock housing 1. The lock cylinder 1 has a bore 2 formed therein
and a lock barrel 14 (see figure 2) is fitted into the bore 2 in the lock housing 1. A locking
mechanism, generally denoted at 3, is actuated by rotation of the barrel 14. The locking
mechanism may be of conventional design and need not be described further. The skilled
person will appreciate that the locking mechanism 3 operates a latch, a locking bolt or the like
which is used to lock a door or a gate, etc. As can be seen from figure 2, the barrel 14 includes a
key slot 18. The key slot 18 has an opening in the front face 19 of the barrel 14.

                                                   12
[0061]        The barrel 14 is shown in figure 2. The barrel 14 includes six spaced bores 20, 22,
24, 26, 28, 30. These bores come into alignment with a corresponding series of six bores 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9 that are formed in the lock housing 1 (as shown in figure 3). The upper ends of the bores
4 - 9 in the housing 1 are closed by appropriate plugs, one of which is shown at 10 in figure 3.
The bores each hold a bore pin 32 and a housing pin 34. A shear junction or shear point 36
exists at the point of contact between the bore pin 32 and the housing pin 34. A spring 38 biases
the pins 32, 34 inwardly towards the bore 14. This arrangement of bores and pins is
conventional in pin and tumbler locks and it need not be described further.
[0062]        The barrel 14 shown in figure 2 includes a longitudinal slot 40 machined into one
side of the barrel to accommodate the locking member 60. A plurality of transverse extending
slots (in this case, 3 transverse slots) 42, 44, 46 are also machined into the barrel 14, with the
transverse slots 42, 44, 46 intersecting the longitudinal slot 40. Locking cams, one of which is
shown at 48, are inserted into two of the transverse slots 44, 46. A blocking cam is inserted into
the remaining transverse slot 42. A locking member 60, in the form of a cylindrical bar 60, is
also positioned in the longitudinal slot 40.
[0063]        Although not shown in figure 2, a bore is drilled into the barrel 14 from the rear
face of the barrel towards the front face of the barrel. A pivot pin is inserted through this bore
and the pivot pin is used to pivotally mount the locking cams and blocking cam in their
respective transverse slots. This will be described in more detail hereunder.
[0064]        Figures 3 to 5 show a cross sectional view taken along line A in figures 1 and 2.
Figure 3 shows the locking cam being in a locked position whilst figures 4 and 5 show the
locking cam in the unlocked position.
[0065]        As best shown in figure 5, locking cam 48 has a first peripheral surface 52 and a
second peripheral surface 54. A first recess 56 and a second recess 58 are located between the
first peripheral surface 52 and the second peripheral surface 54. As can be seen from figures 3
to 5, the first recess 56 is significantly deeper than the second recess 58. As a result, a locking
member, in the form of a cylindrical bar 60, can be fully received in the first recess 56.
[0066]        The inner wall of the bore 2 of the housing 1 has a housing recess 62 in the form of
a groove machined into the inner wall of the bore 2. The cylindrical groove 62 has a diameter
that is just slightly larger than the diameter of cylindrical bar 60 such that about half of the
cylindrical bar 60 can fit into the cylindrical groove 62.

                                                 13
[0067]        The second recess 58 of the locking cam 48 is significantly less deep than the first
recess 56. As a result, although the second recess has a surface that is complementary to the
surface of the cylindrical bar 60, when the cylindrical bar 60 is received in the second recess 58,
the cylindrical bar 60 protrudes out of the second recess 58 to a large extent. In this manner,
when the second recess is in alignment with the housing groove 62, the cylindrical bar 60
extends from the second recess 58 into the housing groove 62.
[0068]        The locking cam 48 also includes an opening 64 through which a pivot pin can
extend. A biasing spring 66 biases the locking cam in a clockwise direction (as shown with
reference to the orientation shown in figures 3 to 5), such that the first peripheral surface 52 is
biased towards the wall of the bore 2. The locking cam 48 also includes a lower inner surface
68 that is in contact with a ball bearing 70. Due to the locking cam 48 being biased by spring
66 in a clockwise direction, the surface 68 of the locking cam 48 remains in contact with the
ball bearing 70.
[0069]        Figure 3 shows the locking cam 48 in a locked position, in which the barrel is
locked against rotation relative to the housing. As shown in figure 3, the locking
member/cylindrical bar 60 is seated in housing recess/cylindrical groove 62. The locking
member 60 is also seated in the second recess 58. As a result, the locking member 60 prevents
rotation of the barrel relative to the housing.
[0070]        Figures 4 and 5 show insertion of a key 72 having a wing 74 extending laterally
from the shank. When the key 72 is inserted into the key slot of the barrel, the wing 74 comes
into contact with the ball bearing 70 and drives the ball bearing 70 to the right (as shown in
figure 4). This causes the locking cam 48 to pivot about the pivot pin extending through
opening 64. As a result, the locking cam 48 rotates in an anticlockwise direction. This moves
the locking cam 48 such that the deeper first recess 56 comes into alignment with the locking
member 60. Due to the larger depth of the first recess 56, the locking member 60 can move into
the first recess 60 and move out of the housing recess 62. This is shown in figures 4 and 5. As a
result of this movement, the locking member 60 no longer interacts with the locking groove 62
and the locking member 60 no longer locks the barrel 14 against rotation relative to the housing
1. Consequently, the key (which is also operating the pins 32, 34) can be turned to cause the
barrel 14 to also turn.
[0071]        When the key 70 is removed from the key slot, the wing 74 is no longer acting on

                                                    14
the ball bearing 70. As a result, the spring 66 causes the locking cam 48 to rotate in a clockwise
direction, which brings the shallow second recess 58 back into contact with the locking member
60. As the locking cam 48 rotates in a clockwise direction as the key is pulled out, the lower
edge of the housing recess 62 contacts the locking member 60 and stops further downward
movement of the locking member 60. Continued rotation of the locking cam in a clockwise
direction brings the second recess 58 adjacent to the locking bar 60 and this physically retains
the locking bar 60 in the space defined by the housing groove 62 and the second recess 58. This
stops relative rotation between the barrel 14 and the housing 1. The locking cam 48 reverts to
the orientation shown in figure 3 when the key 70 is withdrawn.
[0072]        In order to avoid the possibility of having someone with a key that operates the pins
32, 34 but without a wing 72 from also operating the lock by inserting a piece of wire or a lock
picking element adjacent to the key to force the locking cam to move to the orientation shown
in figures 4 and 5, the barrel 14 may also be provided with one or more blocking cams, as
shown in figures 6 to 8. The blocking cam 80 includes a first peripheral surface 82 and a second
peripheral surface 84. The blocking cam 82 also includes a first recess 86 and a second recess
88. Unlike the locking cam, in which the first recess 56 is located below the second recess 58,
in the blocking cam 80, the first recess 86 is located above the second recess 88. Apart from this
difference, the blocking cam 80 is similar to the locking cam 48. The blocking cam 80 is also
pivotally mounted in the barrel 14 about a pivot pin that extends through opening 90 and a
biasing spring 92 biases the blocking cam in a clockwise direction. A ball bearing 94 contacts a
lower surface of the blocking cam 80 and the key 70.
[0073]        In order to operate a lock having the blocking cam arrangement shown in figures 6
to 8, it is necessary to use a key that has a laterally extending wing 74 that also has recesses cut
into the laterally extending wing at a position where the ball bearing 94 or blocking cam 80 is
located.
[0074]        Figure 7 shows the blocking cam 80 in a locked position. If a key having a lateral
wing 74 that does not have a correctly positioned recess is inserted into the key slot of the barrel
14, the wing 74 causes the blocking cam 80 to rotate in an anticlockwise direction, which brings
the shallow second recess 88 into alignment with the locking bar 60 and the housing groove 62.
As a result, the locking member 60 is physically held between the housing groove 62 and the
first recess 88. This locks the barrel 14 against rotation relative to the housing 1. It will be
appreciated that the blocking cam will also be pushed into a locked position if a piece of wire or

                                                  15
a lock picking element is inserted alongside a key if an attempt was made to pick the lock.
[0075]       If the key with a properly cut recess in the wing 72 is used, the wing does not act on
the ball bearing 94 and the biasing spring 92 biases the blocking cam 80 in a clockwise
direction to the position shown in figures 6 and 8. In this position, the deeper first recess 86 is
in alignment with the locking member 60, which enables the locking member 60 to move out of
the housing recess 62. As a result, the locking member 60 no longer locks the barrel 14 against
rotation relative to the housing 1.
[0076]       The key 70 may be provided with one or more recesses in the projection 72 in a
manner that is similar to that as shown in figure 8 of Australian patent number 666369.
[0077]       In the embodiment shown in the attached figures, the barrel 14 is fitted with two
locking cams and one blocking cam. It will be appreciated that the number of locking cams and
blocking cams may vary. Further, the position of the locking cams and blocking cams may also
vary. In one embodiment, the locking cams are positioned in slots 42 and 46 and the blocking
cam in slot 44. In another embodiment, the locking cams are positioned in slots 42 and 44 and
the blocking cam in slot 46. In another embodiment the locking cams are positioned in slots 44
and 46 and the blocking cam is positioned in slot 42.
[0078]       In embodiments of the present invention, the locking cams are biased to the locked
position and the blocking cams are biased to the unlocked position.
[0079]       The lock cylinder of the present invention provides a lock cylinder of enhanced
security. The lock cylinder is desirably suitable for use with a C4 key or similar profile having
an additional lateral projection or wing extending along a side thereof. In some embodiments,
locking arms may provided on both sides of the key slot and the key maybe provided with
projections or wings on both sides of the key shank. The key slot suitably includes an opening
that is of complementary shape to keys having the desired projections or wings thereon. The
lock cylinder may be provided with one or more locking cams. In the embodiment shown in the
attached figures, the lock cylinder is provided with two locking cams.
[0080]       Locks cylinders in accordance with the present invention allow lock systems to be
implemented in which some locks have lock cylinders in accordance with the present invention
and other locks have lock cylinders without the locking cams. In such systems, a superintendent
may have a restricted key with the lateral projection or wing in order to provide master key

                                                  16
access to a number of locks. However, an occupant may be provided with a lock that does not
have a locking cam and a non-restricted key that does not include the lateral projection or wing.
The occupant's key can operate, for example, the front door of the unit that is equipped with a
lock without the locking cams. However, the occupants key cannot operate a secure lock that is
fitted with the locking cams, such as a lock fitted to an enclosure housing electrical meters or
equipment. However, the superintendent will have a key that has the projection or wing and this
enables the superintendent to operate both the lock to the occupant's unit and the lock to the
enclosure housing electrical meters or equipment.
[0081]       Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[0082]       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more
or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is
not limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any
of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any)
appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.

                                                 17
CLAIMS
1.       A lock cylinder having a barrel and a lock housing,
the barrel having a locking cam pivotally mounted therein,
the locking cam including an opening or a hole through which a mounting pin extends such that
the locking cam pivots about the mounting pin,
the locking cam including at least one recess on an outer periphery thereof,
a bearing that bears upon the locking cam,
a housing recess formed on an inner wall of the lock housing,
a locking member that, in a locking position, is positioned at least partly in the housing recess
formed on the inner wall of the lock housing,
the at least one recess on the locking cam including a first recess on the locking cam, the first
recess being sized to enable the locking member to move out of the housing recess,
the barrel having a key slot for receiving a key, the key including a projection,
the projection of the key contacting the bearing to thereby cause the locking cam to rotate to
bring the first recess on the locking cam adjacent to or into alignment with the locking member
such that the locking member moves out of the housing recess and into the first recess of the
locking cam to thereby enable rotation of the barrel in the lock housing.
2.       A lock cylinder as claimed in claim 1 wherein the locking cam comprises the first recess
and a second recess that is shallower than the first recess such that the second recess is sized to
only partly receive the locking member.
3.       A lock cylinder as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the locking cam
is biased towards a locking position.
4.       A lock cylinder as claimed in claim 3 wherein a biasing means is located between the
locking cam and an inner part of the barrel.
5.       A lock cylinder as claimed in claim 2 wherein the first recess is larger than the second
recess on the locking cam and the first recess is located below the second recess.

                                                  18
6.       A lock cylinder as claimed in claim 5 wherein the locking cam is arranged such that
when the locking cam is oriented with the second recess being generally aligned with the
housing recess, the locking member is retained within the housing recess.
7.       A lock cylinder as claimed in claim 6 wherein the locking member is located partly
within the housing recess and partly within the second recess of the locking cam when the
locking member is in the locked position.
8.       A lock cylinder as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the locking
member comprises a bar and the housing recess comprises a groove that extends generally
parallel to a longitudinal axis of the housing or barrel.
9.       A lock cylinder as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the projection of
the key contacts the bearing during insertion of the key into the key slot to thereby cause
rotation of the locking cam.
10.      A lock cylinder as claimed in claim 9 wherein the bearing is a ball bearing.
11.      A lock cylinder as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further comprising a
blocking cam pivotally mounted within the barrel, the blocking cam including at least one
recess on a periphery thereof, the at least one recess including a first recess, the first recess
being sized to enable the locking member to move out of the housing groove, the blocking cam
being movable between a locking position and an unlocked position, the blocking cam being
arranged such that the projection on the key causes the blocking cam to pivot or rotate during
insertion of the key, wherein the projection on the key includes a recessed region that, when the
key is properly inserted, is located in alignment with the blocking cam such that the blocking
cam is in the unlocked position, and wherein if a key having a different projection or a lock
picking element is inserted into the key slot, the blocking cam is caused to pivot by the
projection or the lock picking element so that the blocking cam is moved to the locking
position.
12.      A lock cylinder as claimed in claim 11 wherein the blocking cam is biased to an
unlocked position.
13.      A lock cylinder as claimed in claim 11 or claim 12 wherein the blocking cam comprises
the first recess and a second recess that is shallower than the first recess such that the second
recess is sized to only partly receive the locking member.

                                                19
14.      A lock cylinder as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 13 wherein the first recess is
located above the second recess in the blocking cam.
15.     A lock cylinder as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 14 wherein the blocking cam is
mounted by a pivot pin extending through an opening in the blocking cam.
16.     A lock cylinder as claimed in anyone of claims 11 to 15 wherein the blocking cam is
mounted in a transverse slot formed in the barrel and the locking cam is mounted in a transverse
slot formed in the barrel.
17.     A lock cylinder as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the barrel is
provided with a longitudinal slot to accommodate the locking member when the locking cam
and the blocking cam are in the unlocked position.
18.     A lock cylinder as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the projection
comprises a lateral projection or a wing on the key.
19.     A lock cylinder as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the lock cylinder
comprises a plurality of locking cams.
20.     A lock cylinder as claimed in any one of claims I to 19 wherein the lock cylinder is of
the pin and tumbler type.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
