                                                  Abstract
  The invention is related to a control module for an alternator. The control module comprises
  an operating circuit and a bridge for switching between two modes. The bridge can be a
5 screw, a pin, a switch, a wire or a connector that switches between modes so that the control
  module can be used with two types of electronic devices, such as ECUs.
                                               12

                          CONTROL MODULE FOR AN ALTERNATOR
                                           Field of the Invention
 5 [0001]       The present invention is related to a control module, particularly a control module
   for an alternator of a vehicle.
                                       Background of the Invention
   [00021       An engine control unit (ECU) in a vehicle is a type of electronic control unit that
   controls a series of actuators in an engine to ensure optimal engine performance. It reads
 o information, such as information on an alternator, from a multitude of sensors within the
   engine bay, for properly controlling the vehicle. The information on an alternator includes a
   control signal for controlling the flow of electrical power generated from the alternator to a
   battery. Known ECUs includes two types: one is without a pull-up resistor such as the
   electronic device 91 shown in Fig. 1 and the other is with a pull-up resistor such as the
   electronic device 92 having the pull-up resistor 93 shown in Fig. 2. Consequently,
   conventional control modules for providing information to ECUs correspondingly include
   two types: a control module 1 with an internal pull-up resistor 113 as shown in Fig. 1 and a
   control module 2 without an internal pull-up resistor as shown in Fig. 2.
   [0003]       Please refer to Fig. 1. The conventional control module 1 used for an alternator
 o (not shown) of a vehicle comprises an operating circuit 11. The operating circuit 11
   comprises an output terminal IM, a control transistor 111 and a first resistor 113. The output
   terminal 1M is electrically coupled to an electronic device 91. The control transistor 111 has
   a first end 111a electrically coupled to the output terminal 1M, a second end 111 b electrically
   coupled to a ground GND via a ground terminal 1E and a third end 111 c for receiving a
25 control signal so that control transistor 111 controls the electric current passing through. The
   first resistor 113 (a pull-Lip resistor) is electrically coupled to a first voltage source BT1 at the
                                                      1

   one end and electrically coupled to the first end 111a of the control transistor 111 and the
   output terminal IM at the other end.
   [0004]       Please refer to Figs. 1 and 2. The electronic device 91 (ECU) is used with the
   control module 1 with an internal pull-up resistor 113 while the electronic device 92 (ECU)
 5 having the pull-up resistor 93 is used with the control module 2 without an internal pull-up
   resistor. Under each of the arrangements in Figs. 1 and 2, a single pull-up resistor (either the
   internal pull-up resistor 113 or the pull-up resistor 93) is involved. Under the arrangement of
   Fig. 1, the control transistor 111 controls the current from the first voltage source BT1
   through the first resistor 113 to the ground GND and the electronic device 91 (the ECU) can
 0 retrieve information from the output terminal IM.
   [0005]       Please refer to Fig. 2. The conventional control module 2 used for an alternator
   (not shown) of a vehicle comprises an operating circuit 21. The operating circuit 21
   comprises an output terminal 2M, a control transistor 211 and is without an internal resistor.
   The output terminal 2M is electrically coupled to an electronic device 92. The control
 5 transistor 211 has a first end 211 a electrically coupled to the output terminal 2M,. a second
   end 211 b electrically coupled to a ground GND via a ground terminal 2E and a third end
   211 c for receiving a control signal so that the control transistor 211 controls the electric
   current passing through. The electronic device 92 includes a second resistor 93 (a pull-up
   resistor) electrically coupled to the output terminal 2M of the conventional control module 2
20 at one end and a second voltage source BT2 at the other end. Under the arrangement of Fig.
   2, the control transistor 211 controls the current from the second voltage source BT2 through
   the second resistor 93, and the output terminal 2M to the ground GND. Consequently, the
   electronic device 92 (the ECU) can retrieve information from the output terminal 2M.
   [0006]       Thus, for different types of ECUs, different control modules 1. 2 need to be
25 separately used. That is, control module suppliers require additional production lines to
                                                   2

manufacture different types of control modules and additional storage spaces for storing
said different types of control modules.
[0007]       In view of the above, there is a need in the trade to design a control module
which can be used with two different types of ECUs (e.g., electronic devices 91, 92).
[0007a]          Any discussion of documents, devices, acts or knowledge in this
specification is included to explain the context of the invention. It should not be taken as
an admission that any of the material formed part of the prior art base or the common
general knowledge in the relevant art on or before the priority date of the claims herein.
[0007b]          Comprises/comprising and grammatical variations thereof when used in
this specification are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps
or components or groups thereof, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or
more other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.
                                  Summary of the Invention
[0008]       In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a control module
for an alternator, comprising:
        an operating circuit comprising:
        an output terminal, electrically coupled to an electronic device;
        a control transistor, having a first end electrically coupled to the output terminal
and a second end electrically coupled to a ground for receiving a control signal to control
the current through the control transistor;
        a first bridge terminal, electrically coupled to a first voltage source;
        a second bridge terminal, electrically coupled to the first end of the control
transistor; and
                                                3

        a first resistor, electrically coupled between the first voltage source and the first
bridge terminal or electrically coupled between the second bridge terminal and the first
end of the control transistor; and
        a bridge, operable to selectively electrically connect the first bridge terminal with
the second bridge terminal based on whether the electronic device includes a second
resistor electrically coupled to the output terminal and a second voltage source;
        wherein when the bridge electrically connects the first bridge terminal with the
second bridge terminal, the control transistor controls the current from the first voltage
source through the first resistor, the first bridge terminal, and the second bridge terminal
to the ground.
                               Brief Description of The Drawings
[0009]       FIG. 1 is a schematic circuit view of a conventional control module having an
internal pull-up resistor for an alternator.
[0010]       FIG. 2 is a schematic circuit view of another conventional control module for
an alternator, used with an engine control unit (ECU) having a pull-up resistor.
                                                 3a

   [0011]       FIG. 3A is a schematic circuit view of a control module for an alternator of one
   embodiment of the present invention in an internal pull-up mode.
   [0012]       FIG. 3B is a schematic circuit view of the control module for an alternator of the
   embodiment of the present invention in an external pull-up mode.
 5 [0013]       FIG. 3C is a schematic circuit view of a control module for an alternator of
   another embodiment of the present invention in an internal pull-up mode.
   [00141       FIG. 4A is a schematic perspective view of the frame of the control module of one
   embodiment of the present invention having a screw as a bridge.
   [0015]       FIG. 4B is a schematic perspective view of the frame of the control module of the
 0 embodiment of the present invention with the screw detached.
   [0016]       FIG. 4C is a schematic rear view of the frame of the control module of the
   embodiment of the present invention.
   [0017]       FIG. 4D is a schematic top view of the frame of the control module of the
   embodiment of the present invention.
 5                               Detailed Description of the Invention
   [0018]       The characteristics, subject matter, advantages, and effects of the present
   invention are detailed hereinafter by reference to the embodiments of the present invention
   and the accompanying drawings. It is understood that the drawings referred to in the
   following description are intended only for purposes of illustration and do not necessarily
20 show the actual proportion and precise arrangement of the embodiments. Therefore, the
   proportion and arrangement shown in the drawings should not be construed as limiting or
   restricting the scope of the present invention.
   [0019]       Please refer to Figs. 3A and 3B. The control module 3 of this embodiment is used
   for an alternator (not shown), preferably an alternator of a vehicle. The control module 3
25 comprises an operating circuit 31 and a bridge 33. The operating circuit 31 comprises an
                                                  4

   output terminal 3M, a control transistor 311, a first bridge terminal 3A, a second bridge
   terminal 3B and a first resistor 313. The output terminal 3M is electrically coupled to an
   electronic device 91 as shown in Fig. 3A or another electronic device 92 as shown in Fig. 3B.
   The control transistor 311 has a first end 311 a electrically coupled to the output terminal 3M
 5 and a second end 311 b electrically coupled to a ground GND and a third end 311 c for
   receiving a control signal for controlling the current passing through the control transistor
   311. The first bridge terminal 3A is electrically coupled to a first voltage source BT1. The
   second bridge terminal 3B is electrically coupled to the first end 311 a of the control transistor
   311. The first resistor 313 is electrically coupled between the first voltage source BT1 and
 o the first bridge terminal 3A. The first resistor 313 is a pull-up resistor. The bridge 33 is
   operable to electrically connect the first bridge terminal 3A with the second bridge terminal
   3B. In an alternative embodiment, the first resistor 313 is electrically coupled between the
   second bridge terminal 3B and the first end 311 a of the control transistor 311 as shown in Fig.
   3C.
 5 [00201       Please refer to Fig. 3A. Where the control module 3 is used with an electronic
   device 91 having no pull-up resistor, a user uses the bridge 33 to electrically connect the first
   bridge terminal 3A with the second bridge terminal 3B so that the control module 3 is in an
   internal pull-up mode. When the bridge 33 electrically connects the first bridge terminal 3A
   with the second bridge terminal 3B. the control transistor 311 controls the current from the
2o first voltage source BT1 through the first resistor 313, the first bridge terminal 3A, and the
   second bridge terminal 3B to the ground GND. The electronic device 91 retrieves
   information from the output terminal 3M.
   [0021]       Please refer to Fig. 3B. Where the control module 3 is used with an electronic
   device 92 having a second resistor 93 therein, the second resistor 93, which is a pull-up
25 resistor, is electrically coupled to the output terminal 3M of the control module 3 at one end
                                                   5

   and a second voltage source BT2 at the other end. In use, a user disconnects the bridge 33
   from the first bridge terminal 3A and the second bridge terminal 3B so that the control
   module 3 enters into an external pull-up mode. Under this circumstance, the first bridge
   terminal 3A and the second bridge terminal 3B are not electrically connected together with
 5 the bridge 33, and the control transistor 311 controls the current from the second voltage
   source BT2 through the second resistor 93, and the output terminal 3M to the ground GND.
   [00221      In view of the above, with such a "bridge" design, the control module 3 can be
   used with either the electronic device 91 having no pull-up resistor, or the electronic device
   92 having a pull-up transistor. With such control module 3, users need not purchase and
 0 suppliers need not provide two different types of conventional control modules 1 and 2 for
   two types of electronic devices 91, 92.
   [0023]      Please refer to Figs. 3A to 3C. The control module 3 further comprises a ground
   terminal 3E for electrically connecting the control transistor 311 to the ground GND and a
   voltage source terminal 3B+ electrically coupled to the first bridge terminal 3A for
 5 electrically connecting the first bridge terminal 3A with the first voltage source BT1.
   [0024]      Please refer to Figs. 3A to 4D. In a preferred embodiment, the control module 3
   comprises a frame 35 and a circuit board 37. The frame 35 accommodates the circuit board
   37 therein. The control transistor 311 is disposed on the circuit board 37. As shown in Figs.
   4A to 4D, the first bridge terminal 3A, the second bridge terminal 3B, the first resistor 313
20 (not shown), the output terminal 3M, the ground terminal 3E and the voltage source terminal
   3B+ are disposed on the frame 35.
   [0025]      Preferably, the frame 35 comprises an output contact 35M, which electrically
   connects the first end 311 a of the control transistor 311 on the circuit board 37 with the
   output terminal 3M and the second bridge terminal 3B on the frame 35.
                                                  6

   [0026]        Preferably, the frame 35 comprises a ground contact 35E, and the ground contact
   35E electrically connects the second end 31 lb of the control transistor 311 on the circuit
   board 37 with the ground terminal 3E on the frame 35.
   [0027]        The bridge 33 used in the control module 3 can be a screw, a pin, a switch, a wire
 5 or a connector. In one embodiment, the bridge 33 is a screw as shown in Fig. 4A, and the
   frame 35 correspondingly has a threaded hole 350 as shown in Fig. 4B disposed between the
   first bridge terminal 3A and the second bridge terminal 3B. When the screw (the bridge 33)
   is screwed into the threaded hole 350, the first bridge terminal 3A is electrically connected
   with the second bridge terminal 3B via the screw (the bridge 33).
 0 [0028]        In one embodiment, the electronic devices 91, 92, to which the control module 3
   is electrically connected, are engine control units (ECUs) for a vehicle. The control module 3
   is used for providing information to the ECU for controlling a vehicle via the output terminal
   3M. In this embodiment, the first voltage source BT1 or the second voltage source BT2 is
   electrically connected to a battery of the vehicle or other power sources from the vehicle,
 5 which provides electrical power. In this embodiment, the control signal received by the
   control transistor 311 via the third end 311 c relates to a signal for controlling the flow of
   electrical power generated from the alternator to the battery of the vehicle.
   [0029]        Accordingly, the control module 3 can be used with two typical types of ECUs
   (i.e., the electronic devices 91, 92) which include or do not include the second resistor 93.
20 With the design of control module 3. the cost and labor for manufacturing and storing two
   types of control modules can be obviously reduced and the mistake of using a control module
   for an incompatible system can be avoided.
   [0030]        The foregoing embodiments are illustrative of the technical concepts and
   characteristics of the present invention so as to enable a person skilled in the art to gain
25 insight into the contents disclosed herein and to implement the present invention accordingly.
                                                  7

However, it is understood that the embodiments are not intended to restrict the scope of the
present invention. Hence, all equivalent modifications to and variations of the disclosed
embodiments made without departing from the spirit and principle of the present invention
should fall within the scope of the appended claims.
                                             8

What is claimed is:
1.      A control module for an alternator, comprising:
        an operating circuit comprising:
        an output terminal, electrically coupled to an electronic device;
        a control transistor, having a first end electrically coupled to the output terminal
and a second end electrically coupled to a ground for receiving a control signal to control
the current through the control transistor;
        a first bridge terminal, electrically coupled to a first voltage source;
        a second bridge terminal, electrically coupled to the first end of the control
transistor; and
        a first resistor, electrically coupled between the first voltage source and the first
bridge terminal or electrically coupled between the second bridge terminal and the first
end of the control transistor; and
        a bridge, operable to selectively electrically connect the first bridge terminal with
the second bridge terminal based on whether the electronic device includes a second
resistor electrically coupled to the output terminal and a second voltage source;
        wherein when the bridge electrically connects the first bridge terminal with the
second bridge terminal, the control transistor controls the current from the first voltage
source through the first resistor, the first bridge terminal, and the second bridge terminal
to the ground.
2.      The control module according to claim 1, wherein when the electronic device
includes the second resistor electrically coupled to the output terminal and a second
voltage source, and the first bridge terminal and the second bridge terminal are not
                                                 9

electrically connected together with the bridge, the control transistor controls the current
from the second voltage source through the second resistor, and the output terminal to the
ground.
3.       The control module according to claim 2, wherein the control module further
comprises a ground terminal for electrically connecting the control transistor to the
ground.
4.       The control module according to claim 3, wherein the control module further
comprises a voltage source terminal electrically coupled to the first bridge terminal for
electrically connecting the first bridge terminal to the first voltage source.
5.       The control module according to claim 4, wherein the control module comprises a
frame and a circuit board, the frame accommodates the circuit board, the control transistor
is disposed on the circuit board, and the first bridge terminal, the second bridge terminal,
the first resistor, the output terminal, the ground terminal and the voltage source terminal
are disposed on the frame.
6.       The control module according to claim 5, wherein the frame comprises an output
contact and the output contact electrically connects the first end of the control transistor
on the circuit board to the output terminal and the second bridge terminal on the frame.
7.       The control module according to claim 5, wherein the frame comprises a ground
contact and the ground contact electrically connects the second end of the control
transistor on the circuit board to the ground terminal on the frame.
                                                10

8.      The control module according to claim 5, wherein the bridge is a screw, a pin, a
switch, a wire or a connector.
9.      The control module according to claim 8, wherein the frame has a threaded hole
disposed between the first bridge terminal and the second bridge terminal, and when the
screw is screwed into the threaded hole, the first bridge terminal is electrically connected
with the second bridge terminal via the screw.
10.     The control module according to claim 2, wherein the electronic device is an
engine control unit (ECU).
11.     The control module according to claim 2, wherein the first voltage source and the
second voltage source are electrically connected to the battery of the vehicle or other
power sources from the vehicle.
12.     The control module according to claim 1, wherein the control signal relates to a
signal for controlling the flow of an electrical power generated from the alternator to a
battery of a vehicle.
VICTORY INDUSTRIAL CORPORATION
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P43038AU00
                                               11

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
-1-                              1/4

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
-2-                              2/4

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
-3-                              3/4

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
-4-                              4/4

