                                                  ABSTRACT
               The invention concerns the prevention and treatment of complement-associated eye
5 conditions, such as choroidal neovascularization (CNV) and age-related macular degeneration
  (AMD), by administration of Factor D antagonists.
  9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF COMPLEMENT-ASSOCIATED EYE CONDITIONS
                The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian patent application
   no. <removed-apn> is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present specification.
 5              Field of the Invention
                The present invention concerns the prevention and treatment of complement-associated eye
    conditions, such as choroidal neovascularization (CNV) and age-related macular degeneration
    (AMD).
10              Background of the Invention
                The complement system is a complex enzyme cascade made up of a series of serum
   glycoproteins, that normally exist in inactive, pro-enzyme form. Two main pathways, the classical
   and the alternative pathway, can activate complement, which merge at the level of C3, where two
   similar C3 convertases cleave C3 into C3a and C3b.
15              Macrophages are specialist cells that have developed an innate capacity to recognize subtle
   differences in the structure of cell-surface expressed identification tags, so called molecular patterns
   (Taylor, et al., Eur J Immunol 33, 2090-2097 (2003); Taylor, et al., Annu Rev Immunol 23, 901-944
   (2005)).        While the direct recognition of these surface structures is a fundamental aspect of innate
   immunity, opsonization allows generic macrophage receptors to mediate engulfment, increasing the
20 efficiency and diversifying recognition repertoire of the phagocyte (Stuart and Ezekowitz, Immunity
   22, 539-550 (2005)). The process of phagocytosis involves multiple ligand-receptor interactions, and
   it is now clear that various opsonins, including immunoglobulins, collectins, and complement
   components, guide the cellular activities required for pathogen internalization through interaction
   with macrophage cell surface receptors (reviewed by Aderem and Underhill, Annu Rev Immunol 17,
25 593-623 (1999); Underhill and Ozinsky, Annu Rev Immunol 20, 825-852 (2002)). While natural
   immunoglobulins encoded by germline genes can recognize a wide variety of pathogens, the majority
   of opsonizing IgG is generated through adaptive immunity, and therefore efficient clearance through
   Fc receptors is not immediate (Carroll, Nat Immunol 5, 981-986 (2004)). Complement, on the other
   hand, rapidly recognizes pathogen surface molecules and primes the particle for uptake by
30 complement receptors (Brown, Infect Agents Dis 1, 63-70 (1991)).
                Complement consists of over 30 serum proteins that opsonize a wide variety of pathogens for
   recognition by complement receptors. Depending on the initial trigger of the cascade, three pathways
   can be distinguished (reviewed by (Walport, N Engl J Med 344, 1058-1066 (2001)). All three share
   the common step of activating the central component C3, but they differ according to the nature of
35 recognition and the initial biochemical steps leading to C3 activation.          The classical pathway is
                                                         -1
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   activated by antibodies bound to the pathogen surface, which in turn bind the Clq complement
   component, setting off a serine protease cascade that ultimately cleaves C3 to its active form, C3b.
   The lectin pathway is activated after recognition of carbohydrate motifs by lectin proteins. To date,
   three members of this pathway have been identified: the mannose-binding lectins (MBL), the SIGN
 5 RI family of lectins and the ficolins (Pyz et al., Ann Med 38, 242-251 (2006))                Both MBL and
   ficolins are associated with serine proteases, which act like Ci in the classical pathway, activating
   components C2 and C4 leading to the central C3 step. The alternative pathway contrasts with both the
   classical and lectin pathways in that it is activated due to direct reaction of the internal C3 ester with
   recognition motifs on the pathogen surface. Initial C3 binding to an activating surface leads to rapid
10 amplification of C3b deposition through the action of the alternative pathway proteases Factor B and
   Factor D. Importantly, C3b deposited by either the classical or the lectin pathway also can lead to
   amplification of C3b deposition through the actions of Factors B and D. In all three pathways of
   complement activation, the pivotal step in opsonization is conversion of the component C3 to C3b.
   Cleavage of C3 by enzymes of the complement cascades exposes the thioester to nucleophilic attack,
15 allowing covalent attachment of C3b onto antigen surfaces via the thioester domain. This is the initial
   step in complement opsonization. Subsequent proteolysis of the bound C3b produces iC3b, C3c and
   C3dg, fragments that are recognized by different receptors (Ross and Medof, Adv Immunol 37, 217
   267 (1985)).              This cleavage abolishes the ability of C3b to further amplify C3b deposition and
   activate the late components of the complement cascade, including the membrane attack complex,
20 capable of direct membrane damage. However, macrophage phagocytic receptors recognize C3b and
   its fragments preferentially; due to the versatility of the ester-bond formation, C3-mediated
   opsonization is central to pathogen recognition (Holers et al., Immunol Today 13, 231-236 (1992)),
   and receptors for the various C3 degradation products therefore play an important role in the host
   immune response.
25              C3 itself is a complex and flexible protein consisting of 13 distinct domains. The core of the
   molecule is made up of 8 so-called macroglobulin (MG) domains, which constitute the tightly packed
    a and      P chains        of C3. Inserted into this structure are CUB (Clr/Cls, Uegf and Bone mophogenetic
   protein-1) and TED domains, the latter containing the thioester bond that allows covalent association
    of C3b with pathogen surfaces. The remaining domains contain C3a or act as linkers and spacers of
30 the core domains.                 Comparison of C3b and C3c structures to C3 demonstrate that the molecule
   undergoes major conformational rearrangements with each proteolysis, which exposes not only the
   TED, but additional new surfaces of the molecule that can interact with cellular receptors (Janssen
    and Gros, Mol Immunol 44, 3-10 (2007)).
                Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of blindness in the elderly
35 worldwide. AMD is characterized by a progressive loss of central vision attributable to degenerative
    and neovascular changes in the macula, a highly specialized region of the ocular retina responsible for
                                                                 -2
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    fine visual acuity. Recent estimates indicate that 14 million persons are blind or severely visually
    impaired because of AMD. The disease has a tremendous impact on the physical and mental health of
   the geriatric population and their families and is becoming a major public health burden.
                New discoveries, however, are beginning to provide a clearer picture of the relevant cellular
 5  events, genetic factors, and biochemical processes associated with early AMD. The complement
    Factor H gene is the first gene identified in multiple independent studies that confers a significant
    genetic risk for the development of AMD.             Thus, three separate groups reported that a tyrosine
    histidine polymorphism at amino acid 402 of Factor H is associated with the development of AMD
    (Klein et al., Science 308:385-389 (2005); Haines et al., Science 308:419-421 (2005); and Edwards et
10  al., Science 308:421-424 (2005)). It has been suggested that impaired alternative pathway inhibition
   by the disease-associated Factor H allele either causes or contributes significantly to the development
    of AMD (Thurman and Holers, J Immunol 176:1305-1310 (2006)).
                It is to be understood that if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference does
   not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general knowledge in the
15  art in Australia or any other country.
                                               Summary of the Invention
                In one aspect, the present invention concerns a method for the prevention or treatment of a
    complement-associated eye condition comprising administering to a subject in need an effective
20  amount of a Factor D antagonist.
                In various embodiments, the subject in need is a mammal, such as a human, and the Factor D
    antagonist is selected from the group consisting of anti-Factor D antibodies and fragments thereof,
   binding polypeptides, peptides, and non-peptide small molecules.
                In a preferred embodiment, the Factor D antagonist is an antibody or an antibody fragment.
25  In various embodiments, the antibody may bind to the active site of Factor D, or may bind en epitope
    including active site residues of Factor D.
                Specific antibodies within the scope of this invention include, without limitation, antibodies
    20D12, 31A9, 25AI and 32H12, and variants thereof.               In a preferred embodiment, the antibody or
    antibody fragment binds essentially to the same epitope as antibody 20D12, or comprises the heavy
30  and/or light chain CDR sequences of antibody 20D12 (SEQ ID NOS: 1 and 2), or is the antibody
    20D 12, or a fragment thereof.
                The anti-Factor D antibodies include human, humanized or chimeric antibodies.
                The antibody fragments may, for example, be Fab, Fab' F(ab)                2, scFv, (scFv) 2, dAb,
    complementarity determining region (CDR) fragments, linear antibodies, single-chain antibody
35  molecules, minibodies, diabodies, or multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.
                                                             -3
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

                Complement-associated      eye   conditions  include,  for  example,    age-relared   macular
    degeneration (AMD), choroidal neovascularization (CNV), uveitis, diabetic and other ischemia
   related retinopathies, diabetic macular edema, pathological myopia, von Hippel-Lindau disease,
    histoplasmosis of the eye, Central Retinal Vein Occlusion (CRVO), corneal neovascularization, and
 5 retinal neovascularization.
                In another aspect, the invention concerns a kit comprising a Factor D antagonist and
    instructions for administering said antagonist to treat a complement-associated eye condition.
                In yet another aspect, the invention concerns the use of a Factor D antagonist in the
   preparation of a medicament for the treatment of a complement-associated eye condition.
10              In a further aspect the invention concerns a Factor D antagonist for use in the treatment of a
    complement-associated eye condition.
                                          Brief Description of the Drawin2s
                Fig. 1A. Levels of Factor D in vitreous and Bruch' s obtained from norma and AMD donor
15 eyes. Factor D levels were measured by a factor D-specific ELISA as described. B: total levels of
    factor D in the eye were determined by calculating the total contribution of Factor D expressed in
   Bruch' s menbrane and the total amount of Factor D found in vitreous.
                Fig. 2. Factor D immunohistochemistry of a cross-section of a Bruch' s membrane from an
   AMD donor eye. Inset shows staining of Factor D in Druse layered on top of the Bruch' s membane.
20 In addition to Druse, Bruch' s membraneand choroid were positive for Factor D.
                Fig. 3. Characterization of 12D20 in a hemolytic assay selective for the alternative pathway
   of complement. IC50 values are indicated below and the assay was performed as described in the
   methods section.
                Fig. 4. Heavy and light chain variable domain sequences of murine monoclonal antibody
25  12D20 (SEQ ID NOS: 1 and 2).
                Fig. 5. Epitope mapping of the various anti-Factor D antibodies. Indicated are their relative
   potencies in the hemolysis assay.
                Fig. 6. Amino acid sequence of native human Factor D polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 3).
                Table 1. Analysis of complement components in AMD.
30              Table 2. Donor tissues used in the studies.
                                                          -4
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

                                     Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment
                                     I.      Definitions
                In the claims which follow and in the description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise" or
 5 variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the
   presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
   various embodiments of the invention.
                The terms "Factor D" and "complement Factor D" are used interchangeably, and refer to
   native sequence and variant Factor D polypeptides.
10              A "native sequence" Factor D, is a polypeptide having the same amino acid sequence as a
   Factor D polypeptide derived from nature, regardless of its mode of preparation.            Thus, native
   sequence Factor D can be isolated from nature or can be produced by recombinant and/or synthetic
   means.         In addition to a mature Factor D protein, such as a mature human Factor D protein
   (NM_001928; SEQ ID NO: 3), the term "native sequence Factor D", specifically encompasses
15 naturally-occurring precursor forms of Factor D (e.g., an inactive preprotein, which is proteolytically
   cleaved to produce the active form), naturally-occurring variant forms (e.g., alternatively spliced
   forms) and naturally-occurring allelic variants of Factor D, as well as structural conformational
   variants of Factor D molecules having the same amino acid sequence as a Factor D polypeptide
   derived from nature. Factor D polypeptides of non-human animals, including higher primates and
20 non-human mammals, are specifically included within this definition.
                "Factor D variant" or "complement Factor D variant" means an active Factor D polypeptide
   as defined below having at least about 80% amino acid sequence identity to a native sequence Factor
   D polypeptide, such as the native sequence human Factor D polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 3.
   Ordinarily, a Factor D variant will have at least about 80% amino acid sequence identity, or at least
25 about 85% amino acid sequence identity, or at least about 90% amino acid sequence identity, or at
    least about 95% amino acid sequence identity, or at least about 98% amino acid sequence identity, or
    at least about 99% amino acid sequence identity with the mature human amino acid sequence of SEQ
   ID NO: 3. Preferably, the highest degree of sequence identity occurs within the active site of Factor
   D.
30              The "active site" of Factor D is defined by His-57, Asp-102, and Ser-195 (chymotrypsinogen
   numbering) in the human Factor D sequence. Factor D has Asp 189 (chymotrypsin numbering) at the
   bottom of the primary specificity pocket and cleaves an Arg peptide bond. The catalytic triad consists
    of His-57, Asp-102 and Ser-195. Asp-102 and His57 display atypical conformations compared with
    other serine proteases (Narayana et al., J. Mol. Biol. 235 (1994), 695-708). A unique sal bridge is
35  observed between Asp189 and Arg218 at the bottom of the SI pocket which elevated loop 214-218
    and generated a deep and narrow SI pocket (Jinget al., J. Mol. Biol. 282 (1998) 1061-1081). This
                                                             -5
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    loop and several other residues around the active site were shown by mutational analysis to be the key
    structural determinants of the factor D esterolytic activity (Kim et al., J. Biol. Chem. 270 (1995)
   24399-24405). Based on these results, it was proposed that factor D may undergo a conformational
    change upon binding C3b-bound factor B, resulting in the expression of proteolytic activity
 5  (Volanakis and Narayana, Protein Sci. 5 (1996) 553-564).
                "Percent (%) amino acid sequence identity" is defined as the percentage of amino acid
   residues in a candidate sequence that are identical with the amino acid residues in a reference Factor
   D sequence, after aligning the sequences and introducing gaps, if necessary, to achieve the maximum
   percent sequence identity, and not considering any conservative substitutions as part of the sequence
10  identity.        Alignment for purposes of determining percent amino acid sequence identity can be
    achieved in various ways that are within the skill in the art, for instance, using publicly available
    computer software such as BLAST, BLAST-2, ALIGN or Megalign (DNASTAR) software. Those
    skilled in the art can determine appropriate parameters for measuring alignment, including any
    algorithms needed to achieve maximal alignment over the full length of the sequences being
15  compared. Sequence identity is then calculated relative to the longer sequence, i.e. even if a shorter
    sequence shows 100% sequence identity with a portion of a longer sequence, the overall sequence
    identity will be less than 100%.
                "Percent (%) nucleic acid sequence identity" is defined as the percentage of nucleotides in a
    candidate sequence that are identical with the nucleotides in a reference Factor D-encoding sequence,
20  after aligning the sequences and introducing gaps, if necessary, to achieve the maximum percent
    sequence identity. Alignment for purposes of determining percent nucleic acid sequence identity can
   be achieved in various ways that are within the skill in the art, for instance, using publicly available
    computer software such as BLAST, BLAST-2, ALIGN or Megalign (DNASTAR) software. Those
    skilled in the art can determine appropriate parameters for measuring alignment, including any
25  algorithms needed to achieve maximal alignment over the full length of the sequences being
    compared. Sequence identity is then calculated relative to the longer sequence, i.e. even if a shorter
    sequence shows 100% sequence identity wit a portion of a longer sequence, the overall sequence
    identity will be less than 100%.
                An "isolated" nucleic acid molecule is a nucleic acid molecule that is identified and separated
30  from at least one contaminant nucleic acid molecule with which it is ordinarily associated in the
   natural source of the nucleic acid. An isolated nucleic acid molecule is other than in the form or
    setting in which it is found in nature. Isolated nucleic acid molecules therefore are distinguished from
   the nucleic acid molecule as it exists in natural cells. However, an isolated nucleic acid molecule
    includes nucleic acid molecules contained in cells that ordinarily express an encoded polypeptide
35 where, for example, the nucleic acid molecule is in a chromosomal location different from that of
   natural cells.
                                                          -6
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

                An "isolated" Factor D polypeptide-encoding nucleic acid molecule is a nucleic acid
   molecule that is identified and separated from at least one contaminant nucleic acid molecule with
   which it is ordinarily associated in the natural source of the Factor D-encoding nucleic acid. An
    isolated Factor D polypeptide-encoding nucleic acid molecule is other than in the form or setting in
 5 which it is found in nature. Isolated Factor D polypeptide-encoding nucleic acid molecules therefore
    are distinguished from the encoding nucleic acid molecule(s) as they exists in natural cells. However,
    an isolated Factor D-encoding nucleic acid molecule includes Factor D-encoding nucleic acid
   molecules contained in cells that ordinarily express Factor D where, for example, the nucleic acid
   molecule is in a chromosomal location different from that of natural cells.
10              The term "antagonist" is used in the broadest sense, and includes any molecule that is capable
    of neutralizing, blocking, partially or fully inhibiting, abrogating, reducing or interfering with a Factor
   D biological activity. Factor D antagonists include, without limitation, anti-Factor D antibodies and
    antigen-binding fragments thereof, other binding polypeptides, peptides, and non-peptide small
   molecules, that bind to Factor D and are capable of neutralizing, blocking, partially or fully inhibiting,
15  abrogating, reducing or interfering with Factor D activities, such as the ability ot Factor D to
   participate in the pathology of a complement-associated eye condition.
                A "small molecule" is defined herein to have a molecular weight below about 600, preferably
   below about 1000 daltons.
                "Active" or "activity" or "biological activity" in the context of a Factor D antagonist of the
20 present invention is the ability the antagonize (patially or fully inhibit) a biological activity of Factor
   D. A preferred biological activity of a Factor D antagonist is the ability to achieve a measurable
    improvement in the state, e.g. pathology, of a Factor D-associated disease or condition, such as, for
    example, a complement-associated eye condition. The activity can be determined in in vitro or in
   vivo tests, including binding assays, using a relevant animal model, or human clinical trials.
25              The term "complement-associated eye condition" is used in the broadest sense and includes
    all eye conditions the pathology of which involves complement, including the classical and the
    alternative pathways, and in particular the alternative pathway of complement. Complement
    associated eye conditions include, without limitation, macular degenerative diseases, such as all
    stages of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), including dry and wet (non-exudative and
30  exudative) forms, choroidal neovascularization (CNV), uveitis, diabetic and other ischemia-related
   retinopathies, and other intraocular neovascular diseases, such as diabetic macular edema,
   pathological myopia, von Hippel-Lindau disease, histoplasmosis of the eye, Central Retinal Vein
    Occlusion (CRVO), corneal neovascularization, and retinal neovascularization. A preferred group of
    complement-associated eye conditions includes age-related macular degeneration (AMD), including
35 non-exudative (wet) and exudative (dry or atrophic) AMD, choroidal neovascularization (CNV),
    diabetic retinopathy (DR), and endophthalmitis.
                                                           -7
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

                "Treatment" is an intervention performed with the intention of preventing the development or
   altering the pathology of a disorder. Accordingly, "treatment" refers to both therapeutic treatment
    and prophylactic or preventative measures. Those in need of treatment include those already with the
    disorder as well as those in which the disorder is to be prevented. In treatment of an immune related
 5  disease, a therapeutic agent may directly alter the magnitude of response of a component of the
    immune response, or render the disease more susceptible to treatment by other therapeutic agents,
   e.g., antibiotics, antifungals, anti-inflammatory agents, chemotherapeutics, etc.
                The "pathology" of a disease, such as a complement-associated eye condition, includes all
   phenomena that compromise the well-being of the patient. This includes, without limitation,
10 abnormal or uncontrollable cell growth (neutrophilic, eosinophilic, monocytic, lymphocytic cells),
    antibody production, auto-antibody production, complement production, interference with the normal
    functioning of neighboring cells, release of cytokines or other secretory products at abnormal levels,
    suppression or aggravation of any inflammatory or immunological response, infiltration of
    inflammatory cells (neutrophilic, eosinophilic, monocytic, lymphocytic) into cellular spaces, etc.
15              The term "mammal" as used herein refers to any animal classified as a mammal, including,
   without limitation, humans, higher primates, domestic and farm animals, and zoo, sports or pet
    animals such horses, pigs, cattle, dogs, cats and ferrets, etc. In a preferred embodiment of the
   invention, the mammal is a human.
                Administration "in combination with" one or more further therapeutic agents includes
20 simultaneous (concurrent) and consecutive administration in any order.
                "Therapeutically effective amount" is the amount of a "Factor D antagonist" which is
   required to achieve a measurable improvement in the state, e.g. pathology, of the target disease or
    condition, such as, for example, a complement-associated eye condition.
                The term "control sequences" refers to DNA sequences necessary for the expression of an
25  operably linked coding sequence in a particular host organism. The control sequences that are
    suitable for prokaryotes, for example, include a promoter, optionally an operator sequence, and a
   ribosome binding site. Eukaryotic cells are known to utilize promoters, polyadenylation signals, and
    enhancers.
                Nucleic acid is "operably linked" when it is placed into a functional relationship with another
30 nucleic acid sequence. For example, DNA for a presequence or secretory leader is operably linked to
   DNA for a polypeptide if it is expressed as a preprotein that participates in the secretion of the
   polypeptide; a promoter or enhancer is operably linked to a coding sequence if it affects the
   transcription of the sequence; or a ribosome binding site is operably linked to a coding sequence if it
    is positioned so as to facilitate translation. Generally, "operably linked" means that the DNA
35  sequences being linked are contiguous, and, in the case of a secretory leader, contiguous and in
   reading phase. However, enhancers do not have to be contiguous. Linking is accomplished by
                                                         -8
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    ligation at convenient restriction sites. If such sites do not exist, the synthetic oligonucleotide
    adaptors or linkers are used in accordance with conventional practice.
                "Stringency" of hybridization reactions is readily determinable by one of ordinary skill in the
    art, and generally is an empirical calculation dependent upon probe length, washing temperature, and
 5  salt concentration. In general, longer probes require higher temperatures for proper annealing, while
    shorter probes need lower temperatures. Hybridization generally depends on the ability of denatured
   DNA to reanneal when complementary strands are present in an environment below their melting
   temperature. The higher the degree of desired homology between the probe and hybridizable
    sequence, the higher the relative temperature that can be used. As a result, it follows that higher
10 relative temperatures would tend to make the reaction conditions more stringent, while lower
   temperatures less so. For additional details and explanation of stringency of hybridization reactions,
    see Ausubel et al., CurrentProtocolsin MolecularBiology, Wiley Interscience Publishers, (1995).
                "Stringent conditions" or "high stringency conditions", as defined herein, may be identified
   by those that: (1) employ low ionic strength and high temperature for washing, for example 0.0 15 M
15  sodium chloride/0.0015 M sodium citrate/0.1% sodium dodecyl sulfate at 50'C; (2) employ during
   hybridization a denaturing agent, such as formamide, for example, 50% (v/v) formamide with 0.1%
   bovine serum albumin/0. I% Ficoll/0. 1% polyvinylpyrrolidone/50mM sodium phosphate buffer at pH
    6.5 with 750 mM sodium chloride, 75 mM sodium citrate at 42C; or (3) employ 50% formamide, 5 x
    SSC (0.75 M NaCl, 0.075 M sodium citrate), 50 mM sodium phosphate (pH 6.8), 0. 1% sodium
20 pyrophosphate, 5 x Denhardt's solution, sonicated salmon sperm DNA (50 jig/ml), 0. 1% SDS, and
    10% dextran sulfate at 42'C, with washes at 42'C in 0.2 x SSC (sodium chloride/sodium citrate) and
    50% formamide at 55 0C, followed by a high-stringency wash consisting of 0.1 x SSC containing
   EDTA at 55 0 C.
                "Moderately stringent conditions" may be identified as described by Sambrook et al.,
25 MolecularCloning: A LaboratoryManual, New York: Cold Spring Harbor Press, 1989, and include
   the use of washing solution and hybridization conditions (e.g., temperature, ionic strength and %SDS)
    less stringent that those described above. An example of moderately stringent conditions is overnight
    incubation at 37 0 C in a solution comprising: 20% formamide, 5 x SSC (150 mM NaCl, 15 mM
   trisodium citrate), 50 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7.6), 5 x Denhardt's solution, 10% dextran sulfate,
30  and 20 mg/nL denatured sheared salmon sperm DNA, followed by washing the filters in 1 x SSC at
    about 37-50 0C. The skilled artisan will recognize how to adjust the temperature, ionic strength, etc.
    as necessary to accommodate factors such as probe length and the like.
                The term "epitope tagged" when used herein refers to a chimeric polypeptide comprising a
   polypeptide of the invention fused to a "tag polypeptide". The tag polypeptide has enough residues to
35 provide an epitope against which an antibody can be made, yet is short enough such that it does not
    interfere with activity of the polypeptide to which it is fused. The tag polypeptide preferably also is
                                                          -9
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    fairly unique so that the antibody does not substantially cross-react with other epitopes. Suitable tag
   polypeptides generally have at least six amino acid residues and usually between about 8 and 50
    amino acid residues (preferably, between about 10 and 20 amino acid residues).
                The term "antibody" is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers, without limitation,
 5 single anti-Factor D monoclonal antibodies (including agonist, antagonist, and neutralizing
    antibodies) and anti-Factor D antibody compositions with polyepitopic specificity. The term
    "monoclonal antibody" as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of
    substantially homogeneous antibodies, i.e., the individual antibodies comprising the population are
    identical except for possible naturally-occurring mutations that may be present in minor amounts.
10              The term "monoclonal antibody" as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a
   population of substantially homogeneous antibodies, i.e., the individual antibodies comprising the
   population are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations that may be present in
   minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific, being directed against a single antigenic
    site. Furthermore, in contrast to conventional (polyclonal) antibody preparations which typically
15  include different antibodies directed against different determinants (epitopes), each monoclonal
    antibody is directed against a single determinant on the antigen. The modifier "monoclonal" indicates
   the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of
   antibodies, and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular
   method. For example, the monoclonal antibodies to be used in accordance with the present invention
20 may be made by the hybridoma method first described by Kohler et al. (1975) Nature 256:495, or
   may be made by recombinant DNA methods (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567). The "monoclonal
    antibodies" may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques described in
    Clackson et al. (1991) Nature 352:624-628 and Marks et al. (1991) J. Mol. Biol. 222:581-597, for
    example.
25              The monoclonal antibodies herein specifically include "chimeric" antibodies
    (immunoglobulins) in which a portion of the heavy and/or light chain is identical with or homologous
   to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or belonging to a
   particular antibody class or subclass, while the remainder of the chain(s) is identical with or
   homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another species or belonging to
30  another antibody class or subclass, as well as fragments of such antibodies, so long as they exhibit the
    desired biological activity (U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567; and Morrison et al. (1984) Proc.Natl. Acad.
   Sci. USA 81:6851-6855).
                "Humanized" forms of non-human (e.g., murine) antibodies are chimeric antibodies which
   contain minimal sequence derived from non-human immunoglobulin. For the most part, humanized
35 antibodies are human immunoglobulins (recipient antibody) in which residues from a hypervariable
   region of the recipient are replaced by residues from a hypervariable region of a non-human species
                                                        -10
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    (donor antibody) such as mouse, rat, rabbit or nonhuman primate having the desired specificity,
    affinity, and capacity. In some instances, Fv framework region (FR) residues of the human
    immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non-human residues. Furthermore, humanized
    antibodies may comprise residues which are not found in the recipient antibody or in the donor
 5  antibody. These modifications are made to further refine antibody performance. In general, the
   humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one, and typically two, variable
    domains, in which all or substantially all of the hypervariable loops correspond to those of a non
   human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FR regions are those of a human
    immunoglobulin sequence. The humanized antibody optionally also will comprise at least a portion
10  of an immunoglobulin constant region (Fc), typically that of a human immunoglobulin. For further
    details, see Jones et al. (1986) Nature 321:522-525; Riechmann et al. (1988) Nature 332:323-329; and
   Presta (1992) Curr.Op. Struct. Biol. 2:593-596.
                A "species-dependent antibody" is one which has a stronger binding affinity for an antigen
    from a first mammalian species than it has for a homologue of that antigen from a second mammalian
15  species. Normally, the species-dependent antibody "binds specifically" to a human antigen (i.e. has a
   binding affinity (Kd) value of no more than about 1 x 10-7 M, preferably no more than about 1 x 10
    M and most preferably no more than about 1 x 10-9 M) but has a binding affinity for a homologue of
   the antigen from a second nonhuman mammalian species which is at least about 50 fold, or at least
    about 500 fold, or at least about 1000 fold, weaker than its binding affinity for the human antigen.
20  The species-dependent antibody can be any of the various types of antibodies as defined above, but
   preferably is a humanized or human antibody.
                As used herein, "antibody mutant" or "antibody variant" refers to an amino acid sequence
    variant of the species-dependent antibody wherein one or more of the amino acid residues of the
    species-dependent antibody have been modified. Such mutants necessarily have less than 100%
25  sequence identity or similarity with the species-dependent antibody. In a preferred embodiment, the
    antibody mutant will have an amino acid sequence having at least 75% amino acid sequence identity
    or similarity with the amino acid sequence of either the heavy or light chain variable domain of the
    species-dependent antibody, more preferably at least 80%, more preferably at least 85%, more
   preferably at least 90%, and most preferably at least 95%. Identity or similarity with respect to this
30  sequence is defined herein as the percentage of amino acid residues in the candidate sequence that are
    identical (i.e same residue) or similar (i.e. amino acid residue from the same group based on common
    side-chain properties, see below) with the species-dependent antibody residues, after aligning the
    sequences and introducing gaps, if necessary, to achieve the maximum percent sequence identity.
    None of N-terminal, C-terminal, or internal extensions, deletions, or insertions into the antibody
35  sequence outside of the variable domain shall be construed as affecting sequence identity or
    similarity.
                                                       -11
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

                An "isolated" antibody is one which has been identified and separated and/or recovered from
    a component of its natural environment. Contaminant components of its natural environment are
    materials which would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the antibody, and may include
    enzymes, hormones, and other proteinaceous or nonproteinaceous solutes. In preferred embodiments,
 5 the antibody will be purified (1) to greater than 95% by weight of antibody as determined by the
    Lowry method, and most preferably more than 99% by weight, (2) to a degree sufficient to obtain at
    least 15 residues of N-terminal or internal amino acid sequence by use of a spinning cup sequenator,
    or (3) to homogeneity by SDS-PAGE under reducing or nonreducing conditions using Coomassie
   blue or, preferably, silver stain. Isolated antibody includes the antibody in situ within recombinant
10  cells since at least one component of the antibody's natural environment will not be present.
    Ordinarily, however, isolated antibody will be prepared by at least one purification step.
                As used herein, "antibody variable domain" refers to the portions of the light and heavy
    chains of antibody molecules that include amino acid sequences of Complementarity Determining
    Regions (CDRs; ie., CDRI, CDR2, and CDR3), and Framework Regions (FRs). VH refers to the
15  variable domain of the heavy chain. VL refers to the variable domain of the light chain. According to
   the methods used in this invention, the amino acid positions assigned to CDRs and FRs may be
    defined according to Kabat (Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest (National Institutes of
    Health, Bethesda, Md., 1987 and 1991)). Amino acid numbering of antibodies or antigen binding
    fragments is also according to that of Kabat.
20              As used herein, the term "Complementarity Determining Regions (CDRs; ie., CDRi, CDR2,
    and CDR3) refers to the amino acid residues of an antibody variable domain the presence of which
    are necessary for antigen binding. Each variable domain typically has three CDR regions identified
    as CDRi, CDR2 and CDR3. Each complementarity determining region may comprise amino acid
   residues from a "complementarity determining region" as defined by Kabat (i.e. about residues 24-34
25  (LI), 50-56 (L2) and 89-97 (L3) in the light chain variable domain and 31-35 (HI), 50-65 (H2) and
    95-102 (H3) in the heavy chain variable domain; Kabat et al., Sequences ofProteinsof
   Immunological Interest, 5th Ed. Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.
    (1991)) and/or those residues from a "hypervariable loop" (i.e. about residues 26-32 (LI), 50-52 (L2)
    and 91-96 (L3) in the light chain variable domain and 26-32 (HI), 53-55 (H2) and 96-101 (H3) in the
30  heavy chain variable domain; Chothia and Lesk (1987) J. Mol. Biol. 196:901-917). In some
    instances, a complementarity determining region can include amino acids from both a CDR region
    defined according to Kabat and a hypervariable loop. For example, the CDRH1 of the heavy chain of
    antibody 4D5 includes amino acids 26 to 35.
                "Framework regions" (hereinafter FR) are those variable domain residues other than the CDR
35 residues. Each variable domain typically has four FRs identified as FRI, FR2, FR3 and FR4. If the
    CDRs are defined according to Kabat, the light chain FR residues are positioned at about residues 1
                                                        -12
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    23 (LCFR1), 35-49 (LCFR2), 57-88 (LCFR3), and 98-107 (LCFR4) and the heavy chain FR residues
    are positioned about at residues 1-30 (HCFR1), 36-49 (HCFR2), 66-94 (HCFR3), and 103-113
    (HCFR4) in the heavy chain residues. If the CDRs comprise amino acid residues from hypervariable
    loops, the light chain FR residues are positioned about at residues 1-25 (LCFR1), 33-49 (LCFR2), 53
 5  90 (LCFR3), and 97-107 (LCFR4) in the light chain and the heavy chain FR residues are positioned
    about at residues 1-25 (HCFR1), 33-52 (HCFR2), 56-95 (HCFR3), and 102-113 (HCFR4) in the
    heavy chain residues. In some instances, when the CDR comprises amino acids from both a CDR as
    defined by Kabat and those of a hypervariable loop, the FR residues will be adjusted accordingly.
    For example, when CDRH1 includes amino acids H26-H35, the heavy chain FRI residues are at
10 positions 1-25 and the FR2 residues are at positions 36-49.
                As used herein, "codon set" refers to a set of different nucleotide triplet sequences used to
    encode desired variant amino acids. A set of oligonucleotides can be synthesized, for example, by
    solid phase synthesis, including sequences that represent all possible combinations of nucleotide
   triplets provided by the codon set and that will encode the desired group of amino acids. A standard
15  form of codon designation is that of the IUB code, which is known in the art and described herein. A
    codon set typically is represented by 3 capital letters in italics, eg. NNK, NNS, XYZ, D VK and the like.
   A "non-random codon set", as used herein, thus refers to a codon set that encodes select amino acids
   that fulfill partially, preferably completely, the criteria for amino acid selection as described herein.
    Synthesis of oligonucleotides with selected nucleotide "degeneracy" at certain positions is well
20 known in that art, for example the TRIM approach (Knappek et al. (1999) J. Mol. Biol. 296:57-86);
    Garrard & Henner (1993) Gene 128:103). Such sets of oligonucleotides having certain codon sets
    can be synthesized using commercial nucleic acid synthesizers (available from, for example, Applied
    Biosystems, Foster City, CA), or can be obtained commercially (for example, from Life
    Technologies, Rockville, MD). Therefore, a set of oligonucleotides synthesized having a particular
25  codon set will typically include a plurality of oligonucleotides with different sequences, the
    differences established by the codon set within the overall sequence. Oligonucleotides, as used
    according to the invention, have sequences that allow for hybridization to a variable domain nucleic
    acid template and also can, but does not necessarily, include restriction enzyme sites useful for, for
    example, cloning purposes.
30              The term "antibody fragment" is used herein in the broadest sense and includes, without
    limitation, Fab, Fab' F(ab)      2, scFv, (scFv) 2 , dAb, and complementarity determining region (CDR)
    fragments, linear antibodies, single-chain antibody molecules, minibodies, diabodies, and
    multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.
                An "Fv" fragment is an antibody fragment which contains a complete antigen recognition and
35 binding site. This region consists of a dimer of one heavy and one light chain variable domain in
   tight association, which can be covalent in nature, for example in scFv. It is in this configuration that
                                                             -13
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   the three CDRs of each variable domain interact to define an antigen binding site on the surface of the
    VH-VL      dimer. Collectively, the six CDRs or a subset thereof confer antigen binding specificity to the
    antibody. However, even a single variable domain (or half of an Fv comprising only three CDRs
    specific for an antigen) has the ability to recognize and bind antigen, although usually at a lower
 5  affinity than the entire binding site.
                The "Fab" fragment contains a variable and constant domain of the light chain and a variable
    domain and the first constant domain (CHI) of the heavy chain. F(ab' ) antibody fragments comprise
    a pair of Fab fragments which are generally covalently linked near their carboxy termini by hinge
    cysteines between them. Other chemical couplings of antibody fragments are also known in the art.
10              "Single-chain Fv" or "scFv" antibody fragments comprise the          VH  and VL domains of
    antibody, wherein these domains are present in a single polypeptide chain. Generally the Fv
   polypeptide further comprises a polypeptide linker between the             VH  and VL domains, which enables
   the scFv to form the desired structure for antigen binding. For a review of scFv, see Pluckthun in The
   PharmacologyofMonoclonal Antibodies, Vol 113, Rosenburg and Moore eds. Springer-Verlag, New
15  York, pp. 269-315 (1994).
                The term "diabodies" refers to small antibody fragments with two antigen-binding sites,
    which fragments comprise a heavy chain variable domain (VH) connected to a light chain variable
    domain (VL) in the same polypeptide chain              (VH and VL)- By using a linker that is too short to allow
   pairing between the two domains on the same chain, the domains are forced to pair with the
20  complementary domains of another chain and create two antigen-binding sites. Diabodies are
    described more fully in, for example, EP 404,097; WO 93/11161; and Hollinger et al. (1993) Proc.
   Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90:6444-6448.
                The expression "linear antibodies" refers to the antibodies described in Zapata et al. (1995
   ProteinEng, 8(10):1057-1062). Briefly, these antibodies comprise a pair of tandem Fd segments
25  (VH-CH -VH-CHl)                which, together with complementary light chain polypeptides, form a pair of
    antigen binding regions. Linear antibodies can be bispecific or monospecific.
                As used herein, "library" refers to a plurality of antibody or antibody fragment sequences (for
    example, polypeptides of the invention), or the nucleic acids that encode these sequences, the
    sequences being different in the combination of variant amino acids that are introduced into these
30  sequences according to the methods of the invention.
                "Phage display" is a technique by which variant polypeptides are displayed as fusion proteins
   to at least a portion of coat protein on the surface of phage, e.g., filamentous phage, particles. A
   utility of phage display lies in the fact that large libraries of randomized protein variants can be
   rapidly and efficiently sorted for those sequences that bind to a target antigen with high affinity.
35  Display of peptide and protein libraries on phage has been used for screening millions of polypeptides
    for ones with specific binding properties. Polyvalent phage display methods have been used for
                                                               -14
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    displaying small random peptides and small proteins through fusions to either gene III or gene VIII of
    filamentous phage. Wells and Lowman (1992) Curr.Opin. Struct. Biol. 3:355-362, and references
    cited therein. In a monovalent phage display, a protein or peptide library is fused to a gene III or a
   portion thereof, and expressed at low levels in the presence of wild type gene III protein so that phage
 5 particles display one copy or none of the fusion proteins. Avidity effects are reduced relative to
   polyvalent phage so that sorting is on the basis of intrinsic ligand affinity, and phagemid vectors are
   used, which simplify DNA manipulations. Lowman and Wells (1991) Methods: A companion to
   Methods in Enzymology 3:205-0216.
                A "phagemid" is a plasmid vector having a bacterial origin of replication, e.g., Co1E1, and a
10  copy of an intergenic region of a bacteriophage. The phagemid may be used on any known
   bacteriophage, including filamentous bacteriophage and lambdoid bacteriophage. The plasmid will
    also generally contain a selectable marker for antibiotic resistance. Segments of DNA cloned into
   these vectors can be propagated as plasmids. When cells harboring these vectors are provided with
    all genes necessary for the production of phage particles, the mode of replication of the plasmid
15  changes to rolling circle replication to generate copies of one strand of the plasmid DNA and package
   phage particles. The phagemid may form infectious or non-infectious phage particles. This term
    includes phagemids which contain a phage coat protein gene or fragment thereof linked to a
    heterologous polypeptide gene as a gene fusion such that the heterologous polypeptide is displayed on
   the surface of the phage particle.
20              The term "phage vector" means a double stranded replicative form of a bacteriophage
    containing a heterologous gene and capable of replication. The phage vector has a phage origin of
   replication allowing phage replication and phage particle formation. The phage is preferably a
    filamentous bacteriophage, such as an M13, fl, fd, Pf3 phage or a derivative thereof, or a lambdoid
   phage, such as lambda, 21, phi8O, phi8l, 82, 424, 434, etc., or a derivative thereof.
25              As used herein, "solvent accessible position" refers to a position of an amino acid residue in
   the variable regions of the heavy and light chains of a source antibody or antigen binding fragment
   that is determined, based on structure, ensemble of structures and/or modeled structure of the
    antibody or antigen binding fragment, as potentially available for solvent access and/or contact with a
    molecule, such as an antibody-specific antigen. These positions are typically found in the CDRs and
30  on the exterior of the protein. The solvent accessible positions of an antibody or antigen binding
    fragment, as defined herein, can be determined using any of a number of algorithms known in the art.
    Preferably, solvent accessible positions are determined using coordinates from a 3-dimensional model
    of an antibody, preferably using a computer program such as the InsightlI program (Accelrys, San
    Diego, CA). Solvent accessible positions can also be determined using algorithms known in the art
35  (e.g., Lee and Richards (1971) J. Mol. Biol. 55, 379 and Connolly (1983) J. Apple. Cryst. 16, 548).
    Determination of solvent accessible positions can be performed using software suitable for protein
                                                         -15
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    modeling and 3-dimensional structural information obtained from an antibody. Software that can be
   utilized for these purposes includes SYBYL Biopolymer Module software (Tripos Associates).
    Generally and preferably, where an algorithm (program) requires a user input size parameter, the
    "size"of a probe which is used in the calculation is set at about 1.4 Angstrom or smaller in radius. In
 5  addition, determination of solvent accessible regions and area methods using software for personal
    computers has been described by Pacios (1994) Comput. Chem. 18(4): 377-386.
                               II.   Detailed Description
                Complement plays a crucial role in the body' s defeise, and, together with other components
    of the immune system, protect the individual from pathogens invading the body. However, if not
10 properly activated or controlled, complement can also cause injury to host tissues. Inappropriate
    activation of complement is involved in the pathogenesis of a variety of diseases, referred to as
    complement associated diseases or disorders, such as immune complex and autoimmune diseases, and
    various inflammatory conditions, including complement-mediated inflammatory tissue damage. The
   pathology of complement-associated diseases varies, and might involve complement activation for a
15  long or short period of time, activation of the whole cascade, only one of the cascades (e.g. classical
    or alternative pathway), only some components of the cascade, etc. In some diseases complement
   biological activities of complement fragments result in tissue injury and disease. Accordingly,
    inhibitors of complement have high therapeutic potential. Selective inhibitors of the alternative
   pathway would be particularly useful, because clearance of pathogens and other organisms from the
20 blood through the classical pathway will remain intact.
                The Factor D antagonists of the present invention are useful for the prevention and treatment
    of complement-associated eye conditions (all eye conditions and diseases the pathology of which
    involves complement, including the classical and the alternative pathways, and in particular the
    alternative pathway of complement), such as, for example, macular degenerative diseases, such as all
25  stages of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), including dry and wet (non-exudative and
    exudative) forms, choroidal neovascularization (CNV), uveitis, diabetic and other ischemia-related
   retinopathies, endophthalmitis, and other intraocular neovascular diseases, such as diabetic macular
    edema, pathological myopia, von Hippel-Lindau disease, histoplasmosis of the eye, Central Retinal
    Vein Occlusion (CRVO), corneal neovascularization, and retinal neovascularization. A preferred
30  group of complement-associated eye conditions includes age-related macular degeneration (AMD),
    including non-exudative (wet) and exudative (dry or atrophic) AMD, choroidal neovascularization
    (CNV), diabetic retinopathy (DR), and endophthalmitis.
                AMD is age-related degeneration of the macula, which is the leading cause of irreversible
    visual dysfunction in individuals over the age of 60. Two types of AMD exist, non-exudative (dry)
35  and exudative (wet) AMD. The dry, or nonexudative, form involves atrophic and hypertrophic
    changes in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) underlying the central retina (macula) as well as
                                                          -16
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    deposits (drusen) on the RPE. Patients with nonexudative AMD can progress to the wet, or
    exudative, form of AMD, in which abnormal blood vessels called choroidal neovascular membranes
    (CNVMs) develop under the retina, leak fluid and blood, and ultimately cause a blinding disciform
    scar in and under the retina. Nonexudative AMD, which is usually a precursor of exudative AMD, is
 5  more common. The presentation of nonexudative AMD varies; hard drusen, soft drusen, RPE
    geographic atrophy, and pigment clumping can be present. Complement components are deposited
    on the RPE early in AMD and are major constituents of drusen.
                The present invention specifically concerns the treatment of high risk AMD, including
    category 3 and category 4 AMD. Category 3 AMD is characterized by the absence of advanced
10 AMD in both eyes, at least one eye having a visual acuity of 20/32 or better with at least one large
    druse (e.g. 125 tm), extensive (as measured by drusen area) intermediate drusen, or geographic
    atrophy (GA) that does not involve the center of the macula, or any combination of these. Category 3
   AMD (which is still considered "dry"AMD) has a high risk of cinversion to choroidal
   neovascularization (CNV).
15              Category 4 high risk AMD (classified as "wet" AMD) is characterized by a visual acuity of
    20/32 or better and no advanced AMD (GA involving the center of the macula or features of
    choroidal neovascularization) in index eye. The fellow eye is characterized by advanced AMD, or
    visual acuity less than 20/32 attributable to AMD maculopathy. Typically, high risk AMD, if
   untreated, rapidly progresses into choroidal neovascularization (CNV), at a rate about 10-30-times
20  higher than the rate of progression for category 1 or 2 (not high risk) AMD.
                Factor D antagonists find particular utility in the prevention of the progression of AMD (in
   particular, category 3 or category 4 AMD) into CNV, and/or the prevention of the
    development/progression of AMD or CNV in the non- or less effected fellow eye. In this context, the
   term "prevention" is used in the broadest sense to include, complete or partial blocking and slowing
25  down of the progression of the disease as well as the delay of the unset of the more serious form of
   the disease. Patients who are at high risk of developing or progressing into high risk (category 4)
   AMD or CMV especially benefit from this aspect of the invention.
                It is known that complement factor H (CFH) polymorphism is associated with the risk of an
    individual to develop AMD and/or CNV. Muations in CFH can activate complement, which in turn
30  may lead to AMD/CNV. It has been recently reported that complement factor H (CFH)
   polymorphism accounts for 50% of the attributable risk of AMD (Klein et al., Science 308:385-9
    (2005)). A common halpotype in CFH (HF1/CFH) has been found to predispose individuals to age
   related macular degeneration (Hageman et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 102(2):7227-7232 (2005)).
   AMD has been segregated as an autosomal-dominant trait, with the disease locus mapping to
35  chromosome 1q25-q31 between markers D1S466 and DIS413, with a maximum lod score of about
    3.20 (Klein et al., Arch Opthalmol. 116(8):1082-9 (1998); Majewski et al., Am. J. Hum. Genet.
                                                           -17
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    73(3):540-50 (2003); Seddon et al., Am. J. Hum. Genet. 73(4):780-90 (2003); Weeks et al., Am. J.
    Ophthalmol. 132(5):682-92 (2001); Iyengar et al., Am. J. Hum. Genet. 74(1):20-39 (2004));
    chromosome 2q3/2q32 beween markers D12S1391 and D2S1384, with a maximum lode score of
    2.32/2.03 (Seddon et al., supra); 3p13, between markers D12S1300 and D12S1763, with a maximum
 5  lode score of 2.19 (Majewski et al., supra; Schick et al., Am. J. Hum. Genet. 72(6):1412-24 (2003));
    6q14 between markers D6S1056 and DS249 with a maximum lode score of 3.59/3.17 (Kniazeva et
    al., Am. J. Ophthlmol. 130(2):197-202 (2000)); 9q33, at marker D9S934, with a maximum lode score
    of 2.06 (Mejwski et al., supra); 10q26 at th marker D10S1230, with a maximum lode score of 3.06
    (Majewski et al., supra; Iyengar et al., supra; Kenealy et al., Mol. Vis. 10:57-61 (2004); 17q25 at
10  marker D17S928, maximum lode score of 3.16 (Weeks et al., supra); and 22q12 at marker
    D22S 1045, maximum lode score of 2.0 (Seddon et al., supra). Accordingly, genetic screening is an
    important part of identifying patients who are particularly good candidates for preventative treatment,
    including prevention of the progression of the disease into a more severe form, such as from AMD to
    CNV.
15
                                1. Anti-Factor D antibodies
                The invention herein includes the production and use of anti-Factor D antibodies. Exemplary
    methods for generating antibodies are described in more detail in the following sections.
                Anti-Factor D antibodies are selected using a Factor D antigen derived from a mammalian
20  species. Preferably the antigen is human Factor D. However, Factor Ds from other species such as
    murine Factor D can also be used as the target antigen. The Factor D antigens from various
    mammalian species may be isolated from natural sources. In other embodiments, the antigen is
   produced recombinantly or made using other synthetic methods known in the art.
                The antibody selected will normally have a sufficiently strong binding affinity for the Factor
25  D antigen. For example, the antibody may bind human Factor D with a Kd value of no more than
    about 5 nM, preferably no more than about 2 nM, and more preferably no more than about 500pM.
   Antibody affinities may be determined by a surface plasmon resonance based assay (such as the
    BlAcore assay as described in Examples); enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay (ELISA); and
    competition assays (e.g. RIA's), for example.
30              Also, the antibody may be subject to other biological activity assays, e.g., in order to evaluate
    its effectiveness as a therapeutic. Such assays are known in the art and depend on the target antigen
    and intended use for the antibody. Examples include the HUVEC inhibition assay (as described in
   the Examples below); tumor cell growth inhibition assays (as described in WO 89/06692, for
    example); antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and complement-mediated cytotoxicity
35  (CDC) assays (US Patent 5,500,362); and in vitro and in vivo assays described below for identifying
    Factor D antagonists.
                                                            -18
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

                To screen for antibodies which bind to a particular epitope on the antigen of interest, a
   routine cross-blocking assay such as that described in Antibodies, A LaboratoryManual, Cold Spring
    Harbor Laboratory, Ed Harlow and David Lane (1988), can be performed. Alternatively, epitope
    mapping, e.g. as described in Champe et al. (1995) J. Biol. Chem. 270:1388-1394, can be performed
 5 to determine whether the antibody binds an epitope of interest.
                In a preferred embodiment, the anti-Factor D antibodies are selected using a unique phage
    display approach. The approach involves generation of synthetic antibody phage libraries based on
    single framework template, design of sufficient diversities within variable domains, display of
   polypeptides having the diversified variable domains, selection of candidate antibodies with high
10  affinity to target Factor D antigen, and isolation of the selected antibodies.
                Details of the phage display methods can be found, for example, in W003/102157 published
    December 11, 2003.
                In one aspect, the antibody libraries can be generated by mutating the solvent accessible
    and/or highly diverse positions in at least one CDR of an antibody variable domain. Some or all of
15 the CDRs can be mutated using the methods provided herein. In some embodiments, it may be
   preferable to generate diverse antibody libraries by mutating positions in CDRH1, CDRH2 and
    CDRH3 to form a single library or by mutating positions in CDRL3 and CDRH3 to form a single
    library or by mutating positions in CDRL3 and CDRH 1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 to form a single
    library.
20              A library of antibody variable domains can be generated, for example, having mutations in
   the solvent accessible and/or highly diverse positions of CDRH 1, CDRH2 and CDRH3. Another
    library can be generated having mutations in CDRL1, CDRL2 and CDRL3. These libraries can also
   be used in conjunction with each other to generate binders of desired affinities. For example, after
    one or more rounds of selection of heavy chain libraries for binding to a target antigen, a light chain
25  library can be replaced into the population of heavy chain binders for further rounds of selection to
    increase the affinity of the binders.
                Preferably, a library is created by substitution of original amino acids with variant amino
    acids in the CDRH3 region of the variable region of the heavy chain sequence. The resulting library
    can contain a plurality of antibody sequences, wherein the sequence diversity is primarily in the
30  CDRH3 region of the heavy chain sequence.
                In one aspect, the library is created in the context of the humanized antibody 4D5 sequence,
    or the sequence of the framework amino acids of the humanized antibody 4D5 sequence. Preferably,
   the library is created by substitution of at least residues 95-100a of the heavy chain with amino acids
    encoded by the D VK codon set, wherein the D VK codon set is used to encode a set of variant amino
35  acids for every one of these positions.       An example of an oligonucleotide set that is useful for
    creating these substitutions comprises the sequence (D VK) 7. In some embodiments, a library is
                                                            -19
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    created by substitution of residues 95-100a with amino acids encoded by both D VK and NNK codon
    sets. An example of an oligonucleotide set that is useful for creating these substitutions comprises the
    sequence (D VK) (NNK). In another embodiment, a library is created by substitution of at least
   residues 95-100a with amino acids encoded by both D VK and NNK codon sets. An example of an
 5  oligonucleotide set that is useful for creating these substitutions comprises the sequence (D VK)5
    (NNK). Another example of an oligonucleotide set that is useful for creating these substitutions
    comprises the sequence (NNK) 6 . Other examples of suitable oligonucleotide sequences can be
    determined by one skilled in the art according to the criteria described herein.
                In another embodiment, different CDRH3 designs are utilized to isolate high affinity binders
10  and to isolate binders for a variety of epitopes. The range of lengths of CDRH3 generated in this
    library is 11 to 13 amino acids, although lengths different from this can also be generated. H3
    diversity can be expanded by using NNK, D VK and NVK codon sets, as well as more limited diversity
    at N and/or C-terminal.
                Diversity can also be generated in CDRH1 and CDRH2. The designs of CDR-H1 and H2
15  diversities follow the strategy of targeting to mimic natural antibodies repertoire as described with
    modification that focus the diversity more closely matched to the natural diversity than previous
    design.
                For diversity in CDRH3, multiple libraries can be constructed separately with different
    lengths of H3 and then combined to select for binders to target antigens. The multiple libraries can be
20 pooled and sorted using solid support selection and solution sorting methods as described previously
    and herein below. Multiple sorting satrategies may be employed. For example, one variation
    involves sorting on target bound to a solid, followed by sorting for a tag that may be present on the
    fusion polypeptide (eg. anti-gD tag) and followed by another sort on target bound to solid.
   Alternatively, the libraries can be sorted first on target bound to a solid surface, the eluted binders are
25 then sorted using solution phase binding with decreasing concentrations of target antigen. Utilizing
    combinations of different sorting methods provides for minimization of selection of only highly
    expressed sequences and provides for selection of a number of different high affinity clones.
                High affinity binders for the target Factor D antigen can be isolated from the libraries.
    Limiting diversity in the H1/H2 region decreases degeneracy about 104 to 105 fold and allowing more
30  H3 diversity provides for more high affinity binders. Utilizing libraries with different types of
    diversity in CDRH3 (eg. utilizing DVK or NVT) provides for isolation of binders that may bind to
    different epitopes of a target antigen.
                In another embodiment, a library or libraries with diversity in CDRH1, CDRH2 and CDRH3
   regions is generated. In this embodiment, diversity in CDRH3 is generated using a variety of lengths
35  of H3 regions and using primarily codon sets XYZ andNNK or NNS. Libraries can be formed using
    individual oligonucleotides and pooled or oligonucleotides can be pooled to form a subset of libraries.
                                                          -20
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    The libraries of this embodiment can be sorted against target bound to solid. Clones isolated from
    multiple sorts can be screened for specificity and affinity using ELISA assays. For specificity, the
    clones can be screened against the desired target antigens as well as other nontarget antigens. Those
   binders to the target NRP1 antigen can then be screened for affinity in solution binding competition
 5  ELISA assay or spot competition assay. High affinity binders can be isolated from the library
   utilizing XYZ codon sets prepared as described above. These binders can be readily produced as
    antibodies or antigen binding fragments in high yield in cell culture.
                In some embodiments, it may be desirable to generate libraries with a greater diversity in
    lengths of CDRH3 region. For example, it may be desirable to generate libraries with CDRH3
10 regions ranging from about 7 to 19 amino acids.
                High affinity binders isolated from the libraries of these embodiments are readily produced in
   bacterial and eukaryotic cell culture in high yield. The vectors can be designed to readily remove
    sequences such as gD tags, viral coat protein component sequence, and/or to add in constant region
    sequences to provide for production of full length antibodies or antigen binding fragments in high
15  yield.
                A library with mutations in CDRH3 can be combined with a library containing variant
    versions of other CDRs, for example CDRL1, CDRL2, CDRL3, CDRH1 and/or CDRH2. Thus, for
    example, in one embodiment, a CDRH3 library is combined with a CDRL3 library created in the
    context of the humanized 4D5 antibody sequence with variant amino acids at positions 28, 29, 30,31,
20  and/or 32 using predetermined codon sets. In another embodiment, a library with mutations to the
    CDRH3 can be combined with a library comprising variant CDRH1 and/or CDRH2 heavy chain
    variable domains. In one embodiment, the CDRH1 library is created with the humanized antibody
    4D5 sequence with variant amino acids at positions 28, 30, 31, 32 and 33. A CDRH2 library may be
    created with the sequence of humanized antibody 4D5 with variant amino acids at positions 50, 52,
25  53, 54, 56 and 58 using the predetermined codon sets.
                The anti-Factor D antibody generated from phage libraries can be further modified to
    generate antibody mutants with improved physical, chemical and or biological properties over the
   parent antibody. Where the assay used is a biological activity assay, the antibody mutant preferably
    has a biological activity in the assay of choice which is at least about 10 fold better, preferably at least
30  about 20 fold better, more preferably at least about 50 fold better, and sometimes at least about 100
    fold or 200 fold better, than the biological activity of the parent antibody in that assay. For example,
    an anti-Factor D antibody mutant preferably has a binding affinity for NRP which is at least about 10
    fold stronger, preferably at least about 20 fold stronger, more preferably at least about 50 fold
    stronger, and sometimes at least about 100 fold or 200 fold stronger, than the binding affinity of the
35 parent anti-Factor D antiodies, such as, any of the antibodies hown I Figure 5, and in particular,
    antibody 20D 12.
                                                          -21
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

                 To generate the antibody mutant, one or more amino acid alterations (e.g. substitutions) are
     introduced in one or more of the hypervariable regions of the parent antibody. Alternatively, or in
     addition, one or more alterations (e.g. substitutions) of framework region residues may be introduced
     in the parent antibody where these result in an improvement in the binding affinity of the antibody
 5   mutant for the antigen from the second mammalian species. Examples of framework region residues
    to modify include those which non-covalently bind antigen directly (Amit et al. (1986) Science
     233:747-753); interact with/effect the conformation of a CDR (Chothia et al. (1987) J. Mol. Biol.
     196:901-917); and/or participate in the    VL - VH interface (EP 239 400B1). In certain embodiments,
     modification of one or more of such framework region residues results in an enhancement of the
10  binding affinity of the antibody for the antigen from the second mammalian species. For example,
     from about one to about five framework residues may be altered in this embodiment of the invention.
     Sometimes, this may be sufficient to yield an antibody mutant suitable for use in preclinical trials,
     even where none of the hypervariable region residues have been altered. Normally, however, the
     antibody mutant will comprise additional hypervariable region alteration(s).
15               The hypervariable region residues which are altered may be changed randomly, especially
     where the starting binding affinity of the parent antibody is such that such randomly produced
     antibody mutants can be readily screened.
                 One useful procedure for generating such antibody mutants is called "alanine scanning
   mutagenesis" (Cunningham and Wells (1989) Science 244:1081-1085). Here, one or more of the
20 hypervariable region residue(s) are replaced by alanine or polyalanine residue(s) to affect the
   interaction of the amino acids with the antigen from the second mammalian species. Those
   hypervariable region residue(s) demonstrating functional sensitivity to the substitutions then are
   refined by introducing further or other mutations at or for the sites of substitution. Thus, while the site
   for introducing an amino acid sequence variation is predetermined, the nature of the mutation per se
25 need not be predetermined. The ala-mutants produced this way are screened for their biological
   activity as described herein.
                 Normally one would start with a conservative substitution such as those shown below under
    the heading of "preferred substitutions". If such substitutions result in a change in biological activity
    (e.g. binding affinity), then more substantial changes, denominated "exemplary substitutions" in the
30  following table, or as further described below in reference to amino acid classes, are introduced and
    the products screened. Preferred substitutions are listed in the table below.
                                                         -22
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

                Original Residue              Exemplary Substitutions             Preferred Substitutions
               Ala (A)                        val; leu; ile                       val
               Arg (R)                        lys; gln; asn                       lys
               Asn (N)                        gln; his; lys; arg                  gln
               Asp (D)                        glu                                 glu
                Cys (C)                       ser                                 ser
                Gln (Q)                       asn                                 asn
                Glu (E)                       asp                                 asp
                Gly (G)                       pro; ala                            ala
                His (H)                       asn; gln; lys; arg                  arg
                Ile (I)                       leu; val; met; ala; phe; norleucine leu
                Leu (L)                       norleucine; ile; val; met; ala; phe ile
                Lys (K)                       arg; gln; asn                       arg
                Met (M)                       leu; phe; ile                       leu
                Phe (F)                       leu; val; ile; ala; tyr             leu
                Pro (P)                       ala                                 ala
                Ser (S)                       thr                                 thr
                Thr (T)                       ser                                 ser
                Trp (W)                       tyr; phe                            tyr
                Tyr (Y)                       trp; phe; thr; ser                  phe
                Val (V)                       ile; leu; met; phe; ala; norleucine leu
                 Even more substantial modifications in the antibodies biological properties are
   accomplished by selecting substitutions that differ significantly in their effect on maintaining (a) the
 5 structure of the polypeptide backbone in the area of the substitution, for example, as a sheet or helical
   conformation, (b) the charge or hydrophobicity of the molecule at the target site, or (c) the bulk of the
   side chain. Naturally occurring residues are divided into groups based on common side-chain
   properties:
                 (1) hydrophobic: norleucine, met, ala, val, leu, ile;
10               (2) neutral hydrophilic: cys, ser, thr, asn, gln;
                 (3) acidic: asp, glu;
                 (4) basic: his, lys, arg;
                 (5) residues that influence chain orientation: gly, pro; and
                 (6) aromatic: trp, tyr, phe.
                                                                -23
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

                 Non-conservative substitutions will entail exchanging a member of one of these classes for
    another class.
                 In another embodiment, the sites selected for modification are affinity matured using phage
    display (see above).
 5               Nucleic acid molecules encoding amino acid sequence mutants are prepared by a variety of
    methods known in the art. These methods include, but are not limited to, oligonucleotide-mediated
    (or site-directed) mutagenesis, PCR mutagenesis, and cassette mutagenesis of an earlier prepared
    mutant or a non-mutant version of the parent antibody. The preferred method for making mutants is
    site directed mutagenesis (see, e.g., Kunkel (1985) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82:488).
10               In certain embodiments, the antibody mutant will only have a single hypervariable region
   residue substituted. In other embodiments, two or more of the hypervariable region residues of the
   parent antibody will have been substituted, e.g. from about two to about ten hypervariable region
   substitutions.
                 Ordinarily, the antibody mutant with improved biological properties will have an amino acid
15  sequence having at least 75% amino acid sequence identity or similarity with the amino acid sequence
    of either the heavy or light chain variable domain of the parent antibody, more preferably at least
    80%, more preferably at least 85%, more preferably at least 90%, and most preferably at least 95%.
    Identity or similarity with respect to this sequence is defined herein as the percentage of amino acid
    residues in the candidate sequence that are identical (i.e same residue) or similar (i.e. amino acid
20  residue from the same group based on common side-chain properties, see above) with the parent
    antibody residues, after aligning the sequences and introducing gaps, if necessary, to achieve the
    maximum percent sequence identity. None of N-terminal, C-terminal, or internal extensions,
    deletions, or insertions into the antibody sequence outside of the variable domain shall be construed
    as affecting sequence identity or similarity.
25               Following production of the antibody mutant, the biological activity of that molecule relative
   to the parent antibody is determined. As noted above, this may involve determining the binding
   affinity and/or other biological activities of the antibody. In a preferred embodiment of the invention,
   a panel of antibody mutants is prepared and screened for binding affinity for the antigen such as NRP 1
   or a fragment thereof. One or more of the antibody mutants selected from this initial screen are
30 optionally subjected to one or more further biological activity assays to confirm that the antibody
   mutant(s) with enhanced binding affinity are indeed useful, e.g. for preclinical studies.
                 The antibody mutant(s) so selected may be subjected to further modifications, oftentimes
    depending on the intended use of the antibody. Such modifications may involve further alteration of
    the amino acid sequence, fusion to heterologous polypeptide(s) and/or covalent modifications such as
35  those elaborated below. With respect to amino acid sequence alterations, exemplary modifications
    are elaborated above. For example, any cysteine residue not involved in maintaining the proper
                                                          -24
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    conformation of the antibody mutant also may be substituted, generally with serine, to improve the
    oxidative stability of the molecule and prevent aberrant cross linking. Conversely, cysteine bond(s)
    may be added to the antibody to improve its stability (particularly where the antibody is an antibody
    fragment such as an Fv fragment). Another type of amino acid mutant has an altered glycosylation
 5  pattern. This may be achieved by deleting one or more carbohydrate moieties found in the antibody,
    and/or adding one or more glycosylation sites that are not present in the antibody. Glycosylation of
    antibodies is typically either N-linked or O-linked. N-linked refers to the attachment of the
    carbohydrate moiety to the side chain of an asparagine residue. The tripeptide sequences asparagine
    X-serine and asparagine-X-threonine, where X is any amino acid except proline, are the recognition
10  sequences for enzymatic attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the asparagine side chain. Thus,
    the presence of either of these tripeptide sequences in a polypeptide creates a potential glycosylation
    site. 0-linked glycosylation refers to the attachment of one of the sugars N-aceylgalactosamine,
    galactose, or xylose to a hydroxyamino acid, most commonly serine or threonine, although 5
    hydroxyproline or 5-hydroxylysine may also be used. Addition of glycosylation sites to the antibody
15  is conveniently accomplished by altering the amino acid sequence such that it contains one or more of
    the above-described tripeptide sequences (for N-linked glycosylation sites). The alteration may also
    be made by the addition of, or substitution by, one or more serine or threonine residues to the
    sequence of the original antibody (for 0-linked glycosylation sites).
                 The anti-Factor D antibodies of the invention can be produced recombinantly, using
20  techniques and materials readily obtainable.
                 For recombinant production of an anti-Factor D antibody , the nucleic acid encoding it is
    isolated and inserted into a replicable vector for further cloning (amplification of the DNA) or for
    expression. DNA encoding the antibody is readily isolated or synthethized using conventional
    procedures (e.g., by using oligonucleotide probes that are capable of binding specifically to DNAs
25  encoding the heavy and light chains of the antibody). Many vectors are available. The vector
    components generally include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: a signal sequence,
    an origin of replication, one or more marker genes, an enhancer element, a promoter, and a
    transcription termination sequence.
                                      (i) Signal sequence component
30               The antibody of this invention may be produced recombinantly not only directly, but also as a
   fusion polypeptide with a heterologous polypeptide, which is preferably a signal sequence or other
   polypeptide having a specific cleavage site at the N-terminus of the mature protein or polypeptide.
   The heterologous signal sequence selected preferably is one that is recognized and processed (i.e.,
   cleaved by a signal peptidase) by the host cell. For prokaryotic host cells that do not recognize and
35 process the native antibody signal sequence, the signal sequence is substituted by a prokaryotic signal
   sequence selected, for example, from the group of the alkaline phosphatase, penicillinase, lpp, or heat
                                                             -25
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   stable enterotoxin II leaders. For yeast secretion the native signal sequence may be substituted by, e.g.,
   the yeast invertase leader, <factor leader (including Saccharomyces and Kluyveromyces a-factor
   leaders), or acid phosphatase leader, the C. albicans glucoamylase leader, or the signal described in
   WO 90/13646. In mammalian cell expression, mammalian signal sequences as well as viral secretory
 5 leaders, for example, the herpes simplex gD signal, are available. The DNA for such precursor region
   is ligated in reading frame to DNA encoding the antibody.
                                      (ii)  Origin of replication component
                 Both expression and cloning vectors contain a nucleic acid sequence that enables the vector to
   replicate in one or more selected host cells. Generally, in cloning vectors this sequence is one that
10 enables the vector to replicate independently of the host chromosomal DNA, and includes origins of
   replication or autonomously replicating sequences. Such sequences are well known for a variety of
   bacteria, yeast, and viruses. The origin of replication from the plasmid pBR322 is suitable for most
   Gram-negative bacteria, the 2[ plasmid origin is suitable for yeast, and various viral origins (SV40,
   polyoma, adenovirus, VSV or BPV) are useful for cloning vectors in mammalian cells. Generally, the
15 origin of replication component is not needed for mammalian expression vectors (the SV40 origin may
   typically be used only because it contains the early promoter).
                                      (iii) Selection gene component
                 Expression and cloning vectors may contain a selection gene, also termed a selectable
    marker. Typical selection genes encode proteins that (a) confer resistance to antibiotics or other
20  toxins, e.g., ampicillin, neomycin, methotrexate, or tetracycline, (b) complement auxotrophic
    deficiencies, or (c) supply critical nutrients not available from complex media, e.g., the gene encoding
    D-alanine racemase for Bacilli.
                 One example of a selection scheme utilizes a drug to arrest growth of a host cell. Those cells
   that are successfully transformed with a heterologous gene produce a protein conferring drug
25 resistance and thus survive the selection regimen. Examples of such dominant selection use the drugs
   neomycin, mycophenolic acid and hygromycin.
                 Another example of suitable selectable markers for mammalian cells are those that enable the
   identification of cells competent to take up the antibody nucleic acid, such as DHFR, thymidine
   kinase, metallothionein-I and -II, preferably primate metallothionein genes, adenosine deaminase,
30 ornithine decarboxylase, etc.
                 For example, cells transformed with the DHFR selection gene are first identified by culturing
   all of the transformants in a culture medium that contains methotrexate (Mtx), a competitive antagonist
   of DHFR. An appropriate host cell when wild-type DHFR is employed is the Chinese hamster ovary
   (CHO) cell line deficient in DHFR activity.
35               Alternatively, host cells (particularly wild-type hosts that contain endogenous DHFR)
   transformed or co-transformed with DNA sequences encoding antibody, wild-type DHFR protein, and
                                                                -26
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   another selectable marker such as aminoglycoside 3-phosphotransferase (APH) can be selected by cell
   growth in medium containing a selection agent for the selectable marker such as an aminoglycosidic
   antibiotic, e.g., kanamycin, neomycin, or G418. See U.S. Patent No. 4,965,199.
                 A suitable selection gene for use in yeast is the trpI gene present in the yeast plasmid YRp7
 5  (Stinchcomb et al. (1979) Nature 282:39). The trpI gene provides a selection marker for a mutant
    strain of yeast lacking the ability to grow in tryptophan, for example, ATCC No. 44076 or PEP4-1.
    Jones (1977) Genetics 85:12. The presence of the trpI lesion in the yeast host cell genome then
    provides an effective environment for detecting transformation by growth in the absence of
    tryptophan. Similarly, Leu2-deficient yeast strains (ATCC 20,622 or 38,626) are complemented by
10  known plasmids bearing the Leu2 gene.
                 In addition, vectors derived from the 1.6 tm circular plasmid pKD1 can be used for
    transformation of Kluyveromyces yeasts. Alternatively, an expression system for large-scale
    production of recombinant calf chymosin was reported for K. lactis. Van den Berg (1990)
    Bio/Technology 8:135. Stable multi-copy expression vectors for secretion of mature recombinant
15  human serum albumin by industrial strains of Kluyveromyces have also been disclosed. Fleer et al.
    (1991) Bio/Technology 9:968-975.
                                      (iv) Promoter component
                 Expression and cloning vectors usually contain a promoter that is recognized by the host
    organism and is operably linked to the antibody nucleic acid. Promoters suitable for use with
20  prokaryotic hosts include the phoA promoter,           p-lactamase and lactose promoter systems, alkaline
    phosphatase, a tryptophan (trp) promoter system, and hybrid promoters such as the tac promoter.
    However, other known bacterial promoters are suitable. Promoters for use in bacterial systems also
    will contain a Shine-Dalgarno (S.D.) sequence operably linked to the DNA encoding the antibody.
                 Promoter sequences are known for eukaryotes. Virtually all eukaryotic genes have an AT
25 rich region located approximately 25 to 30 bases upstream from the site where transcription is
   initiated. Another sequence found 70 to 80 bases upstream from the start of transcription of many
   genes is a CNCAAT region where N may be any nucleotide. At the 3' end of most eukaryotic genes is
   an AATAAA sequence that may be the signal for addition of the poly A tail to the 3' end of the coding
   sequence. All of these sequences are suitably inserted into eukaryotic expression vectors.
30               Examples of suitable promoting sequences for use with yeast hosts include the promoters for
    3-phosphoglycerate kinase or other glycolytic enzymes, such as enolase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate
    dehydrogenase, hexokinase, pyruvate decarboxylase, phosphofructokinase, glucose-6-phosphate
    isomerase, 3-phosphoglycerate mutase, pyruvate kinase, triosephosphate isomerase, phosphoglucose
    isomerase, and glucokinase.
35               Other yeast promoters, which are inducible promoters having the additional advantage of
    transcription controlled by growth conditions, are the promoter regions for alcohol dehydrogenase 2,
                                                             -27
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   isocytochrome C, acid phosphatase, degradative enzymes associated with nitrogen metabolism,
   metallothionein, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and enzymes responsible for maltose
   and galactose utilization. Suitable vectors and promoters for use in yeast expression are further
   described in EP 73,657. Yeast enhancers also are advantageously used with yeast promoters.
 5              Antibody transcription from vectors in mammalian host cells is controlled, for example, by
   promoters obtained from the genomes of viruses such as polyoma virus, fowlpox virus, adenovirus
   (such as Adenovirus 2), bovine papilloma virus, avian sarcoma virus, cytomegalovirus, a retrovirus,
   hepatitis-B virus and most preferably Simian Virus 40 (SV40), from heterologous mammalian
   promoters, e.g., the actin promoter or an immunoglobulin promoter, from heat-shock promoters,
10 provided such promoters are compatible with the host cell systems.
                The early and late promoters of the SV40 virus are conveniently obtained as an SV40
   restriction fragment that also contains the SV40 viral origin of replication. The immediate early
   promoter of the human cytomegalovirus is conveniently obtained as a Hindlil E restriction fragment.
   A system for expressing DNA in mammalian hosts using the bovine papilloma virus as a vector is
15 disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,419,446. A modification of this system is described in U.S. Patent No.
   4,601,978. See also Reyes et al. (1982) Nature 297:598-601 on expression of human            p-interferon
   cDNA in mouse cells under the control of a thymidine kinase promoter from herpes simplex virus.
   Alternatively, the rous sarcoma virus long terminal repeat can be used as the promoter.
                                     (v)  Enhancer element component
20              Transcription of a DNA encoding the antibody of this invention by higher eukaryotes is often
   increased by inserting an enhancer sequence into the vector. Many enhancer sequences are now
   known from mammalian genes (globin, elastase, albumin, a-fetoprotein, and insulin). Typically,
   however, one will use an enhancer from a eukaryotic cell virus. Examples include the SV40 enhancer
   on the late side of the replication origin (bp 100-270), the cytomegalovirus early promoter enhancer,
25 the polyoma enhancer on the late side of the replication origin, and adenovirus enhancers. See also
   Yaniv (1982) Nature 297:17-18 on enhancing elements for activation of eukaryotic promoters. The
   enhancer may be spliced into the vector at a position 5' or 3' to the antibody-encoding sequence, but is
   preferably located at a site 5' from the promoter.
                                     (vi) Transcription terminationcomponent
30              Expression vectors used in eukaryotic host cells (yeast, fungi, insect, plant, animal, human, or
   nucleated cells from other multicellular organisms) will also contain sequences necessary for the
   termination of transcription and for stabilizing the mRNA. Such sequences are commonly available
   from the 5' and, occasionally 3', untranslated regions of eukaryotic or viral DNAs or cDNAs. These
   regions contain nucleotide segments transcribed as polyadenylated fragments in the untranslated
35 portion of the mRNA encoding the antibody. One useful transcription termination component is the
                                                             -28
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    bovine growth hormone polyadenylation region. See W094/11026 and the expression vector
    disclosed therein.
                                      (vii) Selection and transformationof host cells
                 Suitable host cells for cloning or expressing the DNA in the vectors herein are the prokaryote,
 5  yeast, or higher eukaryote cells described above. Suitable prokaryotes for this purpose include
    eubacteria, such as Gram-negative or Gram-positive organisms, for example, Enterobacteriaceae such
    as Escherichia, e.g., E. coli, Enterobacter,Erwinia, Klebsiella, Proteus, Salmonella, e.g., Salmonella
    typhimurium, Serratia, e.g., Serratia marcescans, and Shigella, as well as Bacilli such as B. subtilis
    and B. licheniformis (e.g., B. licheniformis 41P disclosed in DD 266,710 published 12 April 1989),
10  Pseudomonas such as P. aeruginosa,and Streptomyces. One preferred E. coli cloning host is E. coli
    294 (ATCC 31,446), although other strains such as E. coli B, E. coli X1776 (ATCC 31,537), and E.
    coli W3 110 (ATCC 27,325) are suitable. These examples are illustrative rather than limiting.
                 In addition to prokaryotes, eukaryotic microbes such as filamentous fungi or yeast are
    suitable cloning or expression hosts for antibody-encoding vectors. Saccharomyces cerevisiae, or
15  common baker's yeast, is the most commonly used among lower eukaryotic host microorganisms.
    However, a number of other genera, species, and strains are commonly available and useful herein,
    such as Schizosaccharomyces pombe; Kluyveromyces hosts such as, e.g., K. lactis,K.fragilis (ATCC
     12,424), K. bulgaricus (ATCC 16,045), K. wickeramii (ATCC 24,178), K. waltii (ATCC 56,500), K.
    drosophilarum(ATCC 36,906), K. thermotolerans, and K. marxianus;yarrowia (EP 402,226);
20  Pichiapastoris (EP 183,070); Candida; Trichodermareesia (EP 244,234); Neurospora crassa;
    Schwanniomyces such as Schwanniomyces occidentalis; and filamentous fungi such as, e.g.,
    Neurospora,Penicillium, Tolypocladium, and Aspergillus hosts such as A. nidulans and A. niger.
                 Suitable host cells for the expression of glycosylated antibody are derived from multicellular
    organisms. Examples of invertebrate cells include plant and insect cells. Numerous baculoviral
25  strains and variants and corresponding permissive insect host cells from hosts such as Spodoptera
   frugiperda (caterpillar),Aedes aegypti (mosquito), Aedes albopictus (mosquito), Drosophila
    melanogaster (fruitfly), and Bombyx mori have been identified. A variety of viral strains for
    transfection are publicly available, e.g., the L-1 variant of Autographa calfornica NPV and the Bm-5
    strain of Bombyx mori NPV, and such viruses may be used as the virus herein according to the present
30  invention, particularly for transfection of Spodopterafrugiperdacells. Plant cell cultures of cotton,
    corn, potato, soybean, petunia, tomato, and tobacco can also be utilized as hosts.
                 However, interest has been greatest in vertebrate cells, and propagation of vertebrate cells in
    culture (tissue culture) has become a routine procedure. Examples of useful mammalian host cell lines
    are monkey kidney CVI line transformed by SV40 (COS-7, ATCC CRL 1651); human embryonic
35  kidney line (293 or 293 cells subcloned for growth in suspension culture, Graham et al. (1977) J. Gen
     Virol. 36:59) ; baby hamster kidney cells (BHK, ATCC CCL 10); Chinese hamster ovary cells/
                                                                -29
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   DHFR (CHO, Urlaub et al. (1980) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77:4216) ; mouse sertoli cells (TM4,
   Mather (1980) Biol. Reprod. 23:243-251 ); monkey kidney cells (CV1 ATCC CCL 70); African green
   monkey kidney cells (VERO-76, ATCC CRL-1587); human cervical carcinoma cells (HELA, ATCC
   CCL 2); canine kidney cells (MDCK, ATCC CCL 34); buffalo rat liver cells (BRL 3A, ATCC CRL
 5  1442); human lung cells (W138, ATCC CCL 75); human liver cells (Hep G2, HB 8065); mouse
   mammary tumor (MMT 060562, ATCC CCL5 1); TRI cells (Mather et al. (1982) Annals N.Y. Acad.
   Sci. 383:44-68); MRC 5 cells; FS4 cells; and a human hepatoma line (Hep G2).
                Host cells are transformed with the above-described expression or cloning vectors for
   antibody production and cultured in conventional nutrient media modified as appropriate for inducing
10 promoters, selecting transformants, or amplifying the genes encoding the desired sequences.
                                     (viii) Culturing the host cells
                The host cells used to produce the antibody of this invention may be cultured in a variety of
   media. Commercially available media such as Ham's F10 (Sigma), Minimal Essential Medium
   ((MEM), (Sigma), RPMI- 1640 (Sigma), and Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium ((DMEM), Sigma)
15 are suitable for culturing the host cells. In addition, any of the media described in Ham et al. (1979)
   Meth. Enz. 58:44, Barnes et al. (1980) Anal. Biochem.102:255, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,767,704; 4,657,866;
   4,927,762; 4,560,655; or 5,122,469; WO 90/03430; WO 87/00195; or U.S. Patent Re. 30,985 may be
   used as culture media for the host cells. Any of these media may be supplemented as necessary with
   hormones and/or other growth factors (such as insulin, transferrin, or epidermal growth factor), salts
20 (such as sodium chloride, calcium, magnesium, and phosphate), buffers (such as HEPES), nucleotides
   (such as adenosine and thymidine), antibiotics (such as GENTAMYCINTMdrug), trace elements
   (defined as inorganic compounds usually present at final concentrations in the micromolar range), and
   glucose or an equivalent energy source. Any other necessary supplements may also be included at
   appropriate concentrations that would be known to those skilled in the art. The culture conditions,
25 such as temperature, pH, and the like, are those previously used with the host cell selected for
   expression, and will be apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan.
                                     (ix)   Antibody purification
                When using recombinant techniques, the antibody can be produced intracellularly, in the
   periplasmic space, or directly secreted into the medium. If the antibody is produced intracellularly, as
30 a first step, the particulate debris, either host cells or lysed fragments, is removed, for example, by
   centrifugation or ultrafiltration. Carter et al. (1992) Bio/Technology 10:163-167 describe a procedure
   for isolating antibodies which are secreted to the periplasmic space of . coli. Briefly, cell paste is
   thawed in the presence of sodium acetate (pH 3.5), EDTA, and phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride (PMSF)
   over about 30 min. Cell debris can be removed by centrifugation. Where the antibody is secreted into
35 the medium, supernatants from such expression systems are generally first concentrated using a
   commercially available protein concentration filter, for example, an Amicon or Millipore Pellicon
                                                                -30
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

    ultrafiltration unit. A protease inhibitor such as PMSF may be included in any of the foregoing steps
    to inhibit proteolysis and antibiotics may be included to prevent the growth of adventitious
    contaminants.
                 The antibody composition prepared from the cells can be purified using, for example,
 5  hydroxylapatite chromatography, gel electrophoresis, dialysis, and affinity chromatography, with
    affinity chromatography being the preferred purification technique. The suitability of protein A as an
    affinity ligand depends on the species and isotype of any immunoglobulin Fc domain that is present in
    the antibody. Protein A can be used to purify antibodies that are based on human f,        , or 4 heavy
    chains (Lindmark et al. (1983) J. Immunol. Meth. 62:1-13). Protein G is recommended for all mouse
10  isotypes and for human I (Guss et al . (1986) EMBO J. 5:15671575). The matrix to which the
    affinity ligand is attached is most often agarose, but other matrices are available. Mechanically stable
    matrices such as controlled pore glass or poly(styrenedivinyl)benzene allow for faster flow rates and
    shorter processing times than can be achieved with agarose. Where the antibody comprises a CH3
    domain, the Bakerbond ABXTMresin (J. T. Baker, Phillipsburg, NJ) is useful for purification. Other
15  techniques for protein purification such as fractionation on an ion-exchange column, ethanol
    precipitation, Reverse Phase HPLC, chromatography on silica, chromatography on heparin
    SEPHAROSETM chromatography on an anion or cation exchange resin (such as a polyaspartic acid
    column), chromatofocusing, SDS-PAGE, and ammonium sulfate precipitation are also available
    depending on the antibody to be recovered.
20               Following any preliminary purification step(s), the mixture comprising the antibody of
    interest and contaminants may be subjected to low pH hydrophobic interaction chromatography using
    an elution buffer at a pH between about 2.5-4.5, preferably performed at low salt concentrations
    (e.g., from about 0-0.25M salt).
25               2. Screening assays and animal models for identifying Factor D antagonists
                 Factor D antagonists can be evaluated in a variety of cell-based assays and animal models of
   complement-associated diseases or disorders.
                 Thus, for example, recombinant (transgenic) animal models can be engineered by introducing
   the coding portion of the genes of interest into the genome of animals of interest, using standard
30 techniques for producing transgenic animals. Animals that can serve as a target for transgenic
   manipulation include, without limitation, mice, rats, rabbits, guinea pigs, sheep, goats, pigs, and non
   human primates, e.g. baboons, chimpanzees and other monkeys. Techniques known in the art to
   introduce a transgene into such animals include pronucleic microinjection (Hoppe and Wanger, U.S.
   Patent No. 4,873,191); retrovirus-mediated gene transfer into germ lines (e.g., Van der Putten et al.,
35 Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82, 6148-615 [1985]); gene targeting in embryonic stem cells (Thompson
   et al., Cell 56, 313-321 [1989]); electroporation of embryos (Lo, Mol. Cell. Biol. 3, 1803-1814
                                                         -31
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   [1983]); sperm-mediated gene transfer (Lavitrano etal., Cell 57, 717-73 [1989]). For review, see, for
   example, U.S. Patent No. 4,736,866.
                 For the purpose of the present invention, transgenic animals include those that carry the
   transgene only in part of their cells ("mosaic animals"). The transgene can be integrated either as a
 5 single transgene, or in concatamers, e.g., head-to-head or head-to-tail tandems. Selective introduction
   of a transgene into a particular cell type is also possible by following, for example, the technique of
   Lasko et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89, 623-636 (1992).
                 The expression of the transgene in transgenic animals can be monitored by standard
   techniques. For example, Southern blot analysis or PCR amplification can be used to verify the
10 integration of the transgene. The level of mRNA expression can then be analyzed using techniques
   such as in situ hybridization, Northern blot analysis, PCR, or immunocytochemistry.
                 The animals may be further examined for signs of immune disease pathology, for example by
   histological examination to determine infiltration of immune cells into specific tissues. Blocking
   experiments can also be performed in which the transgenic animals are treated with a candidate Factor
15 D antagonist to determine the extent of effects on complement and complement activation, including
   the classical and alternative pathways, or T cell proliferation. In these experiments, blocking
   antibodies which bind to the polypeptide of the invention, are administered to the animal and the
   biological effect of interest is monitored.
                 Alternatively, "knock out" animals can be constructed which have a defective or altered gene
20 encoding Factor D, as a result of homologous recombination between the endogenous gene encoding
   the Factor D polypeptide and altered genomic DNA encoding the same polypeptide introduced into an
   embryonic cell of the animal. For example, cDNA encoding Factor D can be used to clone genomic
   DNA encoding Factor D in accordance with established techniques. A portion of the genomic DNA
   encoding Factor D can be deleted or replaced with another gene, such as a gene encoding a selectable
25 marker which can be used to monitor integration. Typically, several kilobases of unaltered flanking
   DNA (both at the 5' and 3' ends) are included in the vector [see e.g., Thomas and Capecchi, Cell,
   51:503 (1987) for a description of homologous recombination vectors]. The vector is introduced into
   an embryonic stem cell line (e.g., by electroporation) and cells in which the introduced DNA has
   homologously recombined with the endogenous DNA are selected [see e.g., Li et al., Cell, 69:915
30 (1992)]. The selected cells are then injected into a blastocyst of an animal (e.g., a mouse or rat) to
   form aggregation chimeras [see e.g., Bradley, in Teratocarcinomasand Embryonic Stem Cells: A
   PracticalApproach, E. J. Robertson, ed. (IRL, Oxford, 1987), pp. 113-152]. A chimeric embryo can
   then be implanted into a suitable pseudopregnant female foster animal and the embryo brought to term
   to create a "knock out" animal. Progeny harboring the homologously recombined DNA in their germ
35 cells can be identified by standard techniques and used to breed animals in which all cells of the
   animal contain the homologously recombined DNA. Knockout animals can be characterized for
                                                          -32
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   instance, for their ability to defend against certain pathological conditions and for their development of
   pathological conditions due to absence of the Factor D polypeptide.
                 Thus, the biological activity of potential Factor D antagonists can be further studied in
   murine Factor D knock-out mice.
 5               An animal model of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) consists of mice with a null
   mutation in Ccl-2 or Ccr-2 gnes. These mice develop cardinal features of AMD, including
   accumulation of lipofuscin in and drusen beneath the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE),
   photoreceptor atrophy and choroidal neovascularization (CNV). These features develop beyond 6
   months of age. Candidate Factor D antagonists can be tested for the formation of drusen,
10 photoreceptor atrophy and choroidal neovascularization.
                 3.             Pharmaceutical Compositions
                 The Factor D antagonists of the present invention, including anti-Factor D antibodies and
   other molecules identified by the screening assays disclosed above, can be administered for the
15 treatment of complement-associates eye conditions in the form of pharmaceutical compositions.
                 Therapeutic formulations of a Factor D antagonist of the invention,are prepared for storage
   by mixing the active molecule having the desired degree of purity with optional pharmaceutically
   acceptable carriers, excipients or stabilizers (Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences 16th edition, Osol,
   A. Ed. [1980]), in the form of lyophilized formulations or aqueous solutions. Acceptable carriers,
20 excipients, or stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed, and
   include buffers such as phosphate, citrate, and other organic acids; antioxidants including ascorbic acid
   and methionine; preservatives (such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride; hexamethonium
   chloride; benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride; phenol, butyl or benzyl alcohol; alkyl
   parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben; catechol; resorcinol; cyclohexanol; 3-pentanol; and m
25 cresol); low molecular weight (less than about 10 residues) polypeptides; proteins, such as serum
   albumin, gelatin, or immunoglobulins; hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; amino
   acids such as glycine, glutamine, asparagine, histidine, arginine, or lysine; monosaccharides,
   disaccharides, and other carbohydrates including glucose, mannose, or dextrins; chelating agents such
   as EDTA; sugars such as sucrose, mannitol, trehalose or sorbitol; salt-forming counter-ions such as
30 sodium; metal complexes (e.g. Zn-protein complexes); and/or non-ionic surfactants such as
   TWEEN TM, PLURONICST M or polyethylene glycol (PEG).
                 Lipofections or liposomes can also be used to deliver the polypeptide, antibody, or an
   antibody fragment, into cells. Where antibody fragments are used, the smallest fragment which
   specifically binds to the binding domain of the target protein is preferred. For example, based upon
35 the variable region sequences of an antibody, peptide molecules can be designed which retain the
   ability to bind the target protein sequence. Such peptides can be synthesized chemically and/or
                                                            -33
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   produced by recombinant DNA technology (see, e.g. Marasco et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90,
   7889-7893 [1993]).
                 The active molecules may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared, for example, by
   coascervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization, for example, hydroxymethylcellulose or
 5 gelatin-microcapsules and poly-(methylmethacylate) microcapsules, respectively, in colloidal drug
   delivery systems (for example, liposomes, albumin microspheres, microemulsions, nano-particles and
   nanocapsules) or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington's Pharmaceutical
   Sciences 16th edition, Osol, A. Ed. (1980).
                 The formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. This is readily
10 accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes.
                 Sustained-release preparations may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained-release
   preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the antibody,
   which matrices are in the form of shaped articles, e.g. films, or microcapsules. Examples of sustained
   release matrices include polyesters, hydrogels (for example, poly(2-hydroxyethyl-methacrylate), or
15 poly(vinylalcohol)), polylactides (U.S. Pat. No. 3,773,919), copolymers of L-glutamic acid and y
   ethyl-L-glutamate, non-degradable ethylene-vinyl acetate, degradable lactic acid-glycolic acid
   copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT             TM  (injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid
   glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate), and poly-D-(-)-3-hydroxybutyric acid. While
   polymers such as ethylene-vinyl acetate and lactic acid-glycolic acid enable release of molecules for
20 over 100 days, certain hydrogels release proteins for shorter time periods. When encapsulated
   antibodies remain in the body for a long time, they may denature or aggregate as a result of exposure
   to moisture at 37C, resulting in a loss of biological activity and possible changes in immunogenicity.
   Rational strategies can be devised for stabilization depending on the mechanism involved. For
   example, if the aggregation mechanism is discovered to be intermolecular S-S bond formation through
25 thio-disulfide interchange, stabilization may be achieved by modifying sulfhydryl residues,
   lyophilizing from acidic solutions, controlling moisture content, using appropriate additives, and
   developing specific polymer matrix compositions.
                 The compounds of the invention for prevention or treatment of an ocular disease or condition
   are typically administered by ocular, intraocular, and/or intravitreal injection. Other methods
30 administration by also be used, which includes but is not limited to, topical, parenteral, subcutaneous,
   intraperitoneal, intrapulmonary, intranasal, and intralesional administration. Parenteral infusions
   include intramuscular, intravenous, intraarterial, intraperitoneal, or subcutaneous administration.
                 Formulations for ocular, intraocular or intravitreal administration can be prepared by methods
   and using ingredients known in the art. A main requirement for efficient treatment is proper
35 penetration through the eye. Unlike diseases of the front of the eye, where drugs can be delivered
   topically, retinal diseases require a more site-specific approach. Eye drops and ointments rarely
                                                           -34
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   penetrate the back of the eye, and the blood-ocular barrier hinders penetration of systemically
   administered drugs into ocular tissue. Accordingly, usually the method of choice for drug delivery to
   treat retinal disease, such as AMD and CNV, is direct intravitreal injection. Intravitrial injections are
   usually repeated at intervals which depend on the patient's condition, and the properties and half-life of
 5 the drug delivered. For intraocular (e.g. intravitreal) penetration, usually molecules of smaller size are
   preferred.
                 The efficacy of the treatment of complement-associated eye conditions, such as AMD or
   CNV, can be measured by various endpoints commonly used in evaluating intraocular diseases. For
   example, vision loss can be assessed. Vision loss can be evaluated by, but not limited to, e.g.,
10 measuring by the mean change in best correction visual acuity (BCVA) from baseline to a desired time
   point (e.g., where the BCVA is based on Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual
   acuity chart and assessment at a test distance of 4 meters), measuring the proportion of subjects who
   lose fewer than 15 letters in visual acuity at a desired time point compared to baseline, measuring the
   proportion of subjects who gain greater than or equal to 15 letters in visual acuity at a desired time
15 point compared to baseline, measuring the proportion of subjects with a visual-acuity Snellen
   equivalent of 20/2000 or worse at a desired time point, measuring the NEI Visual Functioning
   Questionnaire, measuring the size of CNV and amount of leakage of CNV at a desired time point, e.g.,
   by fluorescein angiography, etc. Ocular assessments can be done, e.g., which include, but are not
   limited to, e.g., performing eye exam, measuring intraocular pressure, assessing visual acuity,
20 measuring slitlamp pressure, assessing intraocular inflammation, etc.
                 The following examples are offered for illustrative purposes only, and are not intended to
   limit the scope of the present invention in any way.
                 All patent and literature references cited in the present specification are hereby expressly
   incorporated by reference in their entirety.
25
                                                           Examples
                 Commercially available reagents referred to in the examples were used according to
   manufacturer's instructions unless otherwise indicated. The source of those cells identified in the
   following examples, and throughout the specification, by ATCC accession numbers is the American
30 Type Culture Collection, 10801 University Boulevard, Manassas, VA 20110-2209.
                                                            -35
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

                 Example 1
                 Preparation and Testing of anti-Factor D Antibody
                 Methods:
                 Preparationof vitreous fluid andBruch' s Membrane for protein analysis
 5               Human AMD and non-AMD cadaver eyes were thawed and the anterior segment removed
   along with the vitreous, retina and RPE. The vitreous was collected in microtubes, frozen on dry ice
   and stored at -70 C until further processing. The Bruch' s membranechoroid layer was stripped from
   the posterior half-globe (Crabb, J.W. et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A., 99:14682-7 (2002)) and either 4
   mm or 6 mm trephined samples were isolated from the macular and surrounding central region for
10 subsequent analysis. See the attached summary table (Table 2) of the Bruch' s membrane preparations,
   age, gender, AMD stage, dissection notes and amounts used for proteomic analysis. One trephined
   sample, 4 mm diameter, was used for analysis of complement Factor D protein levels. The sample was
   sonicated for 10 min in Assay Diluent (PBS / 0.5% BSA / 0.5% Tween-20) and the soluble and
   insoluble fractions separated by centrifugation for 10 min at 5000 rpm. The soluble fraction was used
15 for the ELISA assays.
                 Generationof Monoclonal Antibodies to human FactorD
                 Monoclonal antibodies to human factor D were generated by injecting 2 pag of factor D
   (Comptech, Taylor, TX) in monophosphoryl lipid A/trehalose dicorynomycolate adjuvant (Corixa,
20 Hamilton, MT) in the footpads of Balb/c mice, 11 times. Popliteal lymph nodes from mice were fused
   with P3X63Ag.U. 1 myeloma cells. Hybridoma cells were screened against murine factor D for
   binding affinity. Cell lines producing antibodies were cloned by limiting dilution.
                 Hemolysis assays
25               For determining alternative pathway activity, rabbit erythrocytes (Er, Colorado Serum) were
   washed 3x in GVB and resuspended to 2 x 109/ml. Inhibitors (50[1l) and 20tl of Er suspension were
   mixed 1:1 with GVB/0. IM EGTA/0. IM MgCl 2. Complement activation was initiated by the addition
   of Cl q-depleted human serum (Quidel; 30 ptl diluted 1:3 in GVB). After a 30 minute incubation at
   room temperature, 200 pl GVB/10 mM EDTA were added to stop the reaction and samples were
30 centrifuged for 5 min at 500 g. Hemolysis was determined in 200 tl supernatant by measuring
   absorbance at 412 nm. Data were expressed as % of hemolysis induced in the absence of the inhibitor.
   To determine the effect of Factor D antibody on the classical pathway of complement, a similar
   procedure was followed except that Er were replaced with IgM-coated sheep erythrocytes (E-IgM,
   CompTech) and the assay was performed in factor B deficient human serum in GVB++.
35
                                                         -36
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

                 Human FactorD ELISA
                 Anti-human complement Factor D goat polyclonal antibody (pAb) (R&D Systems,
   Minneapolis, MN) was diluted to 1 pag/nL in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and coated on ELISA
   plates (384-well, high-bind plates, Greiner Bio One through VWR International, Bridgepoint, New
 5 Jersey) during an overnight incubation at 4'C. After washing 3 times with wash buffer (PBS / 0.05%
   Tween-20), the plates were blocked with PBS / 0.5% bovine serum albumin (BSA) for 1 to 2 hours.
   This and all other incubations were performed at room temperature on an orbital shaker. Human
   vitreous fluid and Bruch' s membrane lysate sampleswere diluted using Assay Diluent (PBS / 0.5%
   BSA / 0.5% Tween-20). Using the same buffer, the serial dilutions were prepared of the factor D
10 (Complement Technology, Inc., Tyler, Texas) standard curve (15.6 pg/mL - 1,000 pg/nL). Frozen
   control samples pre-diluted to quantitate at the high, mid, and low regions of the standard curve were
   thawed. After the blocking step, the plates were washed and the samples, standards, and controls were
   added and incubated for 2 hours. The plates were washed, and biotinylated anti-human Factor D
   monoclonal antibody 9G7.1.16 was diluted to 62.5 ng/mL and added to the plates for a I to 2 hour
15 incubation. Streptavidin-horse radish peroxidase (SA-HRP) (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech,
   Piscataway, NJ) was diluted 1/10,000 in Assay Diluent and added to the washed plates. Following a 30
   minute incubation and a final wash step, tetramethyl benzidine (TMB) (Kirkegaard & Perry
   Laboratories, Gaithersburg, MD) was added and color was developed for 5 to 7 minutes. Finally, the
   reaction was stopped by adding IM phosphoric acid. The optical density was obtained using a
20 microplate reader (450 nm, 650 nm reference), and the sample concentrations were calculated from 4
   parameter fits of the standard curves. The minimum quantifiable concentrations of factor D in human
   vitreous fluid and Bruch' s membrane lysate sampleswere 780 pg/mL (1/50 minimum dilution) and
   156 pg/mL (1/10 minimum dilution), respectively.
25               Immunohistochemistrv
                 Bruch' s membrane samples werefrozen in OCT compound, and 7 tm sections cut on a
    cryomicrotome. Immunostaining. Sections were fixed in Acetone for 5 minutes after sectioning and
    stored at -80 C until ready to stain. Frozen slides were rinsed in PBS 2 times, followed by 2 rinses
    Tris-Buffered Saline containing 0.1% Tween (TBST). Endogenous avidin and biotin was blocked
30  with Vector Avidin Biotin Blocking Kit (SP-200 1) at room temperature follow manufacturers
    directions. Sections were rinsed in TBST, 2 changes, 5 minutes each and endogenous
    immunoglobulins were blocked with 10% Horse serum in 3% BSA/PBS for 30 minutes at room
    temperature. Sections were incubated with anti-human Factor-D (9G7.1.16) antibody diluted to 10
     tg/ml in 10% Horse serum for 60 minutes at room temperature. Naive Mouse IgG2a        @ 10 pg/ml
35  (Pharmingen) was used as negative control. Following rinsing in TBST, 2 changes, 5 minutes each,
    sectiones were incubated with biotinylated Horse anti-Mouse antibody (Vector) diluted to 2.5 pg/ml
                                                        -37
    9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

   (1:200) in Horse serum for 30 minutes. Sections were rinsed in TBST, 2 changes, 5 minutes each and
   incubated with Vectastain ABC-AP Elite Reagent for 30 minutes at room temperature, rinsed in
   TBST (2 changes, 5 minutes each) and incubated in freshly prepared Vector Red solution Vector Red
   was prepared as follows: For 200 mM Tris HCl, dilute 1 M Tris HCl 1:5 in dH20 (1 part Tris HCl
 5 and 4 Parts dH20). Mix 1 drop of Levamisole in every 5 ml of 200mM solution of freshly prepared
   Tris HCl.Mix 2 drops of Reagents 1, 2 and 3 from Vector Red kit individually in every 5 ml of 200
   mM Tris HCl- Levamisole solution. Use within 5-10 minutes of addition of Reagent 3 from Vector
   Red kit. Sectiones were rinsed in H20 and counterstained with Mayer's hematoxylin by dipping in
   hematoxylin for 10-15 dips (20-30 seconds), rinsed with water and blue, and rinsed well in running
10 water for 5 minutes to wash-off bluing reagent. Sections were mounted with Crystal Mount solution
   and let dry overnight. The dried Crystal mount covered slides were dipped in Xylenes and
   coverslipped using permamount mounting medium.
                Cloning of the heavy- and light chain of 20D12
15              Total RNA was extracted from hybridoma cells producing the mouse anti-human Factor D
   monoclonal 20D12, using RNeasy Mini Kit (Qiagen, Germany). The variable light (VL) and variable
   heavy (VH) domains were amplified using RT-PCR with the following degenerate primers:
                Light chain (LC) forward:
                5' GATCGATATCGTRATGACHCARTCTCA3'(SEQ ID NO: 4)
20              Light chain reverse:
                5' TTTDAKYTCCAGCTTGGTACC3'(SEQ ID NO: 5)
                Heavy chain (HC) forward: 5' GATCCGTACGCTCAGGTYCARYICARCARTCTGG3'
   (SEQ ID NO: 6)
                Heavy chain reverse:
25 5' ACAGTGGGCCCTTGGTGGAGGCTGMRGAGACDGTGASHRDRGT3'(SEQ ID NO: 7)
                The forward primers were specific for the N-terminal amino acid sequence of the VL and VH
   region. Respectively, the LC and HC reverse primers were designed to anneal to a region in the
   constant light (CL) and constant heavy domain 1 (CHI), which is highly conserved across species.
                Amplified VL was cloned into a pRK mammalian cell expression vector (Shields et al., J
30 Biol Chem 2000; 276: 6591-604), containing the human kappa constant domain. Amplified VH was
   inserted to a pRK mammalian cell expression vector encoding the full-length human IgGI constant
   domain. Thus, 20D12 was reformatted to a mouse-human IgGI chimera.
                The foregoing written specification is considered to be sufficient to enable one skilled in the
   art to practice the invention. The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the construct
35 deposited, since the deposited embodiment is intended as a single illustration of certain aspects of the
   invention and any constructs that are functionally equivalent are within the scope of this invention.
                                                         -38
   9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

  The deposit of material herein does not constitute an admission that the written description herein
  contained is inadequate to enable the practice of any aspect of the invention, including the best mode
  thereof, nor is it to be construed as limiting the scope of the claims to the specific illustrations that it
  represents.
5              Indeed, various modifications of the invention in addition to those shown and described
  herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and fall within
  the scope of the appended claims.
                                                       -39
  9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
             1.            A method for the prevention or treatment of a complement-associated eye condition
comprising administering to a subject in need an effective amount of a Factor D antagonist.
             2.             The method of claim 1 wherein said said subject is a mammal.
             3.             The method of claim 2 wherein said subject is a human.
             4.             The method of claim 3 wherein said Factor D antagonist is selected from the group
consisting of anti-Factor D antibodies and fragments thereof, binding polypeptides, peptides, and non
peptide small molecules.
             5.             The method of claim 4 wherein said Factor D antagonist is an antibody or an antibody
fragment.
             6.             The method of claim 5 wherein said antibody binds to the active site of Factor D.
             7.             The method of claim 5 wherein said antibody binds to an epitope including active site
residues of Factor D.
             8.             The method of claim 5 wherein said antibody is selected from the group consisting of
antibodies 20D12, 3 1A9, 25A1 and 32H12, and variants thereof.
             9.             The method of claim 5 wherein said antibody bind essentially to the same epitope as
antibody 20D 12.
             10.            The method of claim 5 wherein said antibody comprises the heavy and/or light chain
CDR sequences of antibody 20D12 (SEQ ID NOS: 1 and 2).
             11.            The method of claim 5 which is a human, humanized or chimeric antibody.
             12.            The method of claim 5 wherein said antibody fragment is selected from the group
consisting of Fab, Fab, F(ab)            2, scFv, (scFv) 2, dAb, complementarity determining region (CDR)
fragments, linear antibodies, single-chain antibody molecules, minibodies, diabodies, and
multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.
             13.            The method of claim 12 wherein said antibody fragment is a Fab, Fab, F(ab)    2, scFv,
or (scFv) 2 fragment.
             14.            The method of claim 3 wherein said complement-associated eye condition is selected
from the group consisting of age-relared macular degeneration (AMD), choroidal neovascularization
(CNV), uveitis, diabetic and other ischemia-related retinopathies, diabetic macular edema,
pathological myopia, von Hippel-Lindau disease, histoplasmosis of the eye, Central Retinal Vein
Occlusion (CRVO), corneal neovascularization, and retinal neovascularization.
             15.            The method of claim 14 wherein said AMD is dry AMD.
             16.            The method of claim 14 wherein said AMD is wet AMD.
             17.            A kit comprising a Factor D antagonist and instructions for administering said
antagonist to treat a complement-associated eye condition.
                                                              -40
9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

             18.            The kit of claim 17 wherein said complement-associated eye condition is selected
from the group consisting of age-relared macular degeneration (AMD), choroidal neovascularization
(CNV), uveitis, diabetic and other ischemia-related retinopathies, diabetic macular edema,
pathological myopia, von Hippel-Lindau disease, histoplasmosis of the eye, Central Retinal Vein
Occlusion (CRVO), corneal neovascularization, and retinal neovascularization.
             19.            The kit of claim 18 wherein said complement-associated eye condition is AMD or
CNV.
             20.            The use of a Factor D antagonist in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment
of a complement-associated eye condition.
             21.           A Factor D antagonist for use in the treatment of a complement-associated eye
condition.
                                                             -41
9532963_1 (GHMatters) P82219.AU.3

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                !
                    "     !
                    #      $$             !          !       $
<removed-apn>
                       #        $     %         !        $       $!    !     &    $    %
                     $ %       $
               '         &
                     () *+) ,,-./+0
                     +1+2-)3
                         4 '
                           &   & '
                     5)+/) / #+1          ' '
                     ''
                '   !6, 76,8696,
              !+)   9*   1:    +1    *,   9+    9+   +6      3+   +6 #59     95   31   95   31   9*
              #59   -,   +1    ,:    9+ #59 !+)      31      9/   +1    9/   *,   3+ !+)    +1   31
                                                                                      '
              +1 #59     9*    ,:    1. #59     +1 #59       31   *,    *,   95   +1   9/   ,/ #59
                         '
              ,:    31   ,: #59      95   1:    3+   9/      9/   *,    1(   9*   9/   +1   1(   1.
              9*    +6   9+    *1    +1   95    +1   +1      1.   *1    +1   9* #59    1(   ,:   1.
                                                                                                 ;
              3+    31   9*    +1    9*   +1    9*   31      ,:   3+    31   +6   31   9+   +1   ,/
                                     ;
              #59   9/   +1    96    ,:   +6    95   96      *1   3+    *,   9/   9/   *1   ,/   ,/
                                                                      5.+

<removed-date>
              *1    1(   +6   31   3+   9*   +1   9*   31   *, #59    96   9+   *,   1.   31
              #59   95   95   1(   +1 #59    3+   9+   3+   1(   1(   +1   ,:   96   9/   +6
                    '                        '
              *,    +1   9*   31   95   +1 #59 #59     *,   +6   +6   ,/   ,/   3+   *1   1(
              1.    96   95   *, #59    9/   1:   *, #59    ,:   ,/   95   +6   9/   +1   9*
<removed-apn>
              ,/    +1   9/   96   +1 #59    31   96   9/   ,:   +1   *,   ,:   +1   31   *1
                              ;                        ;
              +1    +6   +1   +1   31   +6   31   +6   +1   *,   95   ,:   *1   96   *,   -,
              *, #59     *1   95   *,   96 #59    31   -,   9/   9*   +6   +1   +1   1( #59
              31    *,   +1   3+   ,/   1.   9*   96   *,
                                        '
                '   !6, 76,8696,
              !+)   9*   1:   +1   *,   9+   9+   +6   3+   +6 #59    95   31   95   31   9*
              95    *1   95   9/ #59    9/   +6   9/   9/   +1   9*   95   96   +6 #59    *,
                                                                                '
              1(    9*   95   +1 #59    *,   +6   +1   *,   *,   95   +1   9*   *1   31   3+
                         '
              31    +1   *1   *1 !+)    *1   1: #59    *,   96   1.   1(   9*   9/   9*   +6
              96    1:   9+   9*   96   9+   ,/   1(   31   ,/   9*   9*   31   ,/   3+   ,/
                                                                                          ;
              96    *,   3+   *,   +1   *,   95   31   +6   31 #59    ,:   31   +1   +1   ,/
                                   ;
              31    95   *1 !+)    9/   +6   +1   +1   +6   31   +1   96   ,:   +1   95 #59
                                                             5.+

<removed-date>
              *1    *1    *,    95   1.   96    9*   9*    3+    95    *1    1:   9*   9/    9*    31
              +6 #59      31 #59     +1   95    95   +1    31    *,    9*    1(   +1 #59     3+    1(
                  '                             '
              +6    95    1(    +1   +1   *,    +1   31    +1    9*    9*    31   95   95    +6    9*
              *,    +6 #59      *,   ,:   *1    3+   1(    96    1( #59      31 #59    +1    1:    ,/
<removed-apn>
              +1    9*    95    +6   31   +1    9* #59     -,    31    3+    1(   95 #59     +6    9/
                                ;                          ;
              +1    +1    9*    +6   *1   +1    +6   +1    +1 #59 #59        31 #59    1(    +1    +1
              +1    +6    9*    31   9/   31    *1   9+    *,    ,/ #59      ,/   -,   *,    1(    +1
              ,/    31    *, #59     ,:   *,    *, #59     96    1(    *,    +1   *,   ,:    *,    31
                                          '                            '
              -,    31    *,    1(   1(   *,    1(   95    1(    96    +6    +6   9*   9*    1(    +1
              #59   3+    +6    3+   1(   1(    *,   1(    *,    ,:    31    +6 !+)    9+    +1    1.
              31    1(    96 #59     31   *, #59 #59 #59         ,: #59      +1   -,   96    ,:    1(
                                                  ;                               ;
              96 #59      *,    3+   ,/   1:    *1 #59     ,:    9* #59       96 #59   -,    ,/    95
                                                                             '
               *,   31    *,    1(   1.    96   96   9/    *1    ,/     +1   31   *1   1. #59 #59
              '                           '                            '                      '
              +1 #59      +6    31 #59    +6    -,   9/    ,:     1:   +6    ,/   9*   *,     96   *1
                                   '                             ''                          ''
              *,    *,    *, #59     +1   ,/    *,   95     +6   1(    95    1(   9+    96   *,    31
                             '                             '                           '
              9+    +1     *,   95   *,   9*    9/    1(   1.    96    1(    9/ #59    *1    31    +6
                          '                          '                          '
              1(     1(   +1    1.   96   96 !+)     31    *,    ,/    9/ #59     +1   +6    31    *,
                    '                        '                            ';
              +6 #59      *,    9*   3+   *1    1(   +1    ,:    9+    95 #59     96   1:    96    +1
                                                                   5.+ '

<removed-date>
              ';                           '                        '
              ,/       9*   9/   1(   96   ,/   ,/   *1   *,   31   31   1(   1( #59    +6   ,:
              +1       ,:   9*   +1   3+   3+   +6   *1   +1   *,   +6   31 #59    ,:   *,   +1
                                                                                   '
              1.       1:   9/   9/   9*   ,/ #59    3+   +1   *,   +1 #59 !+)     -,   96   95
                            '
<removed-apn>
              +6       -,   ,/   -,   *1   31   9/   *,   +1   +6   +1   +6   +1   1(   9*   *,
                       '
                   '    (7( ,5:-+/,
                        '
              !+)      -,   +1   +1 #59    *1   3+ #59    95   +6 #59    9+   +6   9*   95   95
              #59      *,   95   95   9/   1(   1.   9*   1.   9+   +6   9*   9*   9/   96   95
                                                                                   '
              95       95   -,   95   1.   1(   *1 !+)    95   +1 #59    9/ #59    ,/   9*   31
                            '
              -, #59        *,   9*   9*   31   +6   +6   ,:   96   9/   1: #59    +6   +1   95
              95       -,   *, !+)    ,:   9* #59    31   ,:   ,:   ,:   +1 #59    9/ #59    +6
                                                                                             ;
              +6       9*   95   -,   +1   +6   +1   95   1(   96   1(   *1   *,   1.   1:   *1
                                      ;
              ,: #59        9/   +1 #59 #59     1(   -,   1(   9*   +1   1.   1(   ,:   +1   +6
              96       ,:   ,:   +6   9+   +6   3+   *,   +6   +1   9/   ,/   95   +1   +6   9*
              1(       -, #59    1.   1(   +6   1(   +6   9/   *1   96   ,:   *,   96 #59    96
                       '                        '
              1(       9*   31   +6   *,   ,: #59    95   9*   1:   9* #59 #59     31   -,   95
                                                                5.+

<removed-date>
              9*    1.   1.   1(   ,: #59    +6   -,   9/   +6   1. #59    +1   9+ !+)    ,/
              1.    31   31   *,   ,/   +6   1.   31   *1   -,   ,:   9* #59 #59     31   9+
                              ;                        ;
              ,/ !+) !+)      *,   95   96   +1   ,/   1.   1.   ,:   31   *,   1.   9*   ,:
<removed-apn>
              +1    9*   +1   1(   +6 #59    *,   9*   ,:   95 #59    96   9* #59 #59     31
              1:    9*   +1   1. #59    *,   9*   ,/   9*   *,   *,   1(   9* #59    *1   31
                                        '                        '
              1. #59     +1   +1   *1   1. !+)    1:   9+   96   ,/   9+   31   ,/   9*   ,/
              !+)   31   +1
                    %
                '    1)-<-8-59     +=6+/8+
                '   %+,81-:)-(/ (<      1)-<-8-59      +=6+/8+>    */)3+)-8
                    :1-7+1
              .5)8.5)5)8 .)15).5838 51)8)85
                    %
                '    1)-<-8-59     +=6+/8+
                '   %+,81-:)-(/ (<      1)-<-8-59      +=6+/8+>    */)3+)-8
                    :1-7+1
              )))05?*)88 5.8))..)58 8
                    '
                                                             5.+

<removed-date>
                    %
                '    1)-<-8-59   +=6+/8+
                '   %+,81-:)-(/ (<   1)-<-8-59   +=6+/8+>    */)3+)-8
                    :1-7+1
              .5)88.)58. 8)85..)*85 1*).851851 )8)..                    '
<removed-apn>
                     '
                    %
                '    1)-<-8-59   +=6+/8+
                '   %+,81-:)-(/ (<   1)-<-8-59   +=6+/8+>    */)3+)-8
                    :1-7+1
              585.)...88 8))..)..5. .8).71.5.5 80.).5,310 1.)           '
                                                       5.+

