                                            117
       ABSTRACT
       The present invention provides methods for the assessment of diseases that result
from the combined or interactive effects of two or more genetic variants, and in particular
for diagnosing risk of developing such diseases in subjects using an analysis of genetic
polymorphisms. Methods for the derivation of a net score indicative of a subject's risk of
developing a disease are provided.

                           1/3
    80- M    COPD (n=242)
    70-    ]Resistant (n= 197)
    60-  P=0.002
    50
S40
    30
    20
    10
             0                  1              2+
        Number of Protective Genes
                        Figure 1
     90
     80
 0-70
 0
     60
     50
     40
         -4   -3     -2    -1     0    1     2      3    4
                     Net Genetic Burden
         (number of Protective-number of Susceptible Genes)
                        Figure 2

                                2/3
           Combined scores for protective and
   susceptibility polymorphisms in aero-pollutant
                    exposed subjects
     100
       80
   a60
   0
     ~40
       20
         0
              3+    2+    1+      0    1-  2
                     Combined scores
                              Figure 3
       Combined score for protective (-1) and
       susceptible (+1) polymorphisms (n=15)
     80
     60
     40                                       --- Series1
-J
     20
       0
            -2   -1    0     1      2   3 4+
                          Score
                              Figure 4

                       3/3
      Distribution of SNP score for lung
            cancer among smokers
   90
   80
   70
ru 60
   50
C 40
   30
   20
   10
    0
       -3    -2  -1   0       1 2  3    4 5
                       SNP score
                     Figure 5

                                                  1
     "METHODS OF ANALYSIS OF POLYMORPHISMS AND USES THEREOF"
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention is concerned with methods for the assessment of diseases
 5 that result from the combined or interactive effects of two or more genetic variants, and
   in particular for diagnosing risk of developing such diseases in subjects using an
   analysis of genetic polymorphisms.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10         Diseases that result from the combined or interactive effects of two or more
   genetic variants, with or without environmental factors, are called complex diseases and
   include cancer, coronary artery disease, diabetes, stroke, and chronic obstructive
   pulmonary disease (COPD). Although combining non-genetic risk factors to determine
   a risk level of outcome has been in applied to coronary artery disease, (by combining
15 individual factors such as blood pressure, gender, fasting cholesterol, and smoking
   status), there are no such methods in combining the effects of multiple genetic factors
   with non-genetic factors. There is a growing realization that the complex diseases, for
   which examples are given above, may result from the combined effects of common
   genetic variants or polymorphisms rather than mutations which are rare (believed to be
20 present in less than 1% of the general population). Moreover, these relatively common
   polymorphisms may confer either susceptibility and/or protective effects on the
   development of these diseases. In addition, the likelihood that these polymorphisms are
   actually expressed (termed penetrance) as a disease or clinical manifestation requires a
   quantum of environmental exposure before such a genetic tendency can be clinically
25 detected.
           There is thus a need for a method for assessing a subject's risk of developing a
   disease using genetic (and optionally non-genetic) risk factors.
           It is an object of the present invention to go some way towards meeting this need
   and/or to provide the public with a useful choice.
30
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The Applicant's recent studies have identified a number of genetic variants or
   polymorphisms that confer susceptibility to protection from COPD, occupational COPD

                                                  2
   (OCOPD), and lung cancer.         The biological basis of just how these polymorphisms
   interact or combine to determine risk remains unclear.
            The Applicants have now surprisingly found that an assessment approach which
   determines     a subject's   net score    following the balancing      of the number      of
 5 polymorphisms associated with protection from a disease against the number of
   polymorphisms associated with susceptibility to that disease present in the subject is
   indicative of that subject's risk quotient. Furthermore, the applicants have determined
   that this approach is widely applicable, on a disease-by-disease basis.
            It is broadly to this approach to risk assessment that the present invention is
10 directed.
           Accordingly, in a first aspect, the present invention provides a method of
   assessing a subject's risk of developing a disease which comprises:
            analysing a biological sample from said subject for the presence or absence of
   protective    polymorphisms      and for the presence       or absence    of susceptibility
15 polymorphisms,      wherein    said protective   and   susceptibility  polymorphisms    are
   associated with said disease;
            assigning a positive score for each protective polymorphism and a negative score
   for each susceptibility polymorphism or vice versa;
            calculating a net score for said subject, said net score representing the balance
20 between the combined value of the protective polymorphisms and the combined value
   of the susceptibility polymorphisms present in the subject sample;
            wherein a net protective score is predictive of a reduced risk of developing said
   disease and a net susceptibility score is predictive of an increased risk of developingsaid
   disease.
25          The value assigned to each protective polymorphism may be the same or may be
   different.The value assigned to each susceptibility polymorphism may be the same or
   may be different, with either each protective polymorphism having a negative value and
   each susceptibility polymorphism having a positive value, or vice versa.When the
   disease is a lung disease, the protective polymorphisms analysed may be selected from
30 one or more of the group consisting of:
            +760GG or +760CG within the gene encoding superoxide dismutase 3 (SOD3);
            -1296TT    within the promoter of the gene          encoding tissue inhibitor of
            metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP3);

                                               3
           CC (homozygous P allele) within codon 10 of the gene encoding transforming
           growth factor beta (TGFB);
           2G2G within the promoter of the gene encoding metalloproteinase I (MMP 1); or
           one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of these
 5         polymorphisms.
           Linkage disequilibrium is a phenomenon in genetics whereby two or more
   mutations or polymorphisms are in such close genetic proximity that they are co
   inherited.   This means that in genotyping, detection of one polymorphism as present
   infers the presence of the other. (Reich DE et al; Linkage disequilibrium in the human
10 genome, Nature 2001, 411:199-204.).
           Preferably, all polymorphisms of the group are analysed.
           Preferably, the susceptibility polymorphisms analysed are selected from one or
   more of the group consisting of:
           -82AA within the promoter of the gene encoding human macrophage elastase
15         (MMP12);
           -1562CT     or    -1562TT    within the   promoter    of  the   gene   encoding
           metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9);
            1237AG or 1237AA (Tt or tt allele genotypes) within the 3' region of the gene
           encoding al-antitrypsin (alAT); or
20         one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of these
           polymorphisms.
           Preferably, all polymorphisms of the group are analysed.
           In one embodiment each protective polymorphism is assigned a value of -1 and
   each susceptibility polymorphism is assigned a value of +1.
25         In another embodiment each protective polymorphism is assigned a value of +1
   and each susceptibility polymorphism is assigned a value of -1.
           When the disease is COPD, the protective polymorphisms analysed may be
   selected from one or more of the group consisting of:
           -765 CC or CG in the promoter of the gene encoding cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2);
30         Arg 130 Gln AA in the gene encoding Interleukin-13 (IL-13);
           Asp 298 Glu TT in the gene encoding nitric oxide synthase 3 (NOS3);
           Lys 420 Thr AA or AC in the gene encoding vitamin binding protein (VDBP);
           Glu 416 Asp TT or TG in the gene encoding VDBP;
           Ile 105 Val AA in the gene encoding glutathione S-transferase (GSTP 1);

                                              4
          MS in the gene encoding al-antitrypsin (a lAT);
          the +489 GG geneotype in the gene encoding Tumour Necrosis factor a (TNFa);
          the -308 GG geneotype in the gene encoding TNFca;
          the C89Y AA or AG geneotype in the gene encodoing SMAD3;
 5        the 161 GG genotype in the gene encodoing Mannose binding lectin 2 (MBL2);
          the -1903 AA genotype in the gene encoding Chymase 1 (CMA1);
          the Arg 197 Gln AA genotype in the gene encoding N-Acetyl transferase 2
          (NAT2);
          the His 139 Arg GG genotype in the gene encoding Microsomal epoxide
10        hydrolase (MEH);
          the -366 AA or AG genotype in the gene encoding 5 Lipo-oxygenase (ALOX5);
          the HOM T2437C TT genotype in the gene encoding Heat Shock Protein 70
          (HSP 70);
          the exon 1 +49 CT or TT genotype in the gene encoding Elafin;
15        the Gln 27 Glu GG genotype in the gene encoding P2 Adrenergic receptor
          (ADBR);
          the -1607 1G 1G or 1G2G genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding Matrix
          Metalloproteinase 1 (MMP1);
          or one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of
20 these polymorphisms.Preferably, all polymorphisms of the group are analysed.
          Preferably, the susceptibility polymorphisms analysed are selected from one or
   more of the group consisting of:
          Arg 16 Gly GG in the gene encoding [2-adrenoreceptor (ADRB2);
           105 AA in the gene encoding Interleukin- 18 (IL- 18);
25        -133 CC in the promoter of the gene encoding IL-18;
          -675 5G5G in the promoter of the gene encoding plasminogen activator inhibitor
           1 (PAI-I);
          -1055 TT in the promoter of the gene encoding IL-13;
          874 TT in the gene encoding interferon gamma (IFNy);
30        the +489 AA or AG genotype in the gene encoding TNFa;
          the -308 AA or AG genotype in the gene encoding TNFa;
          the C89Y GG genotype in the gene encoding SMAD3;
          the E469K GG genotype in the gene encoding Intracellular Adhesion molecule I
          (ICAMI);

                                               5
          the Gly 881 Arg GC or CC genotype in the gene encoding Caspase (NOD2);
           the -511 GG genotype in the gene encoding ILIB;
          the Tyr 113 His TT genotype in the gene encoding MEH;
          the -366 GG genotype in the gene encoding ALOX5;
 5        the HOM T2437C CC or CT genotype in the gene encoding HSP 70;
           the +13924 AA genotype in the gene encoding Chloride Channel Calcium
           activated 1 (CLCA1);
           the -159 CC genotype in the gene encoding Monocyte differentiation antigen
           CD-14 (CD-14);
10         or one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of
           these polymorphisms.
           Preferably, all polymorphisms of the group are analysed.
           In one embodiment each protective polymorphism is assigned a value of -1 and
   each susceptibility polymorphism is assigned a value of +1.
15         In one embodiment each protective polymorphism is assigned a value of +1 and
   each susceptibility polymorphism is assigned a value of -1.
           When the disease is OCOPD, the protective polymorphisms analysed may be
   selected from one or more of the group consisting of:
           -765 CC or CG in the promoter of the gene encoding COX2;
20         -251 AA in the promoter of the gene encoding interleukin-8 (IL-8);
           Lys 420 Thr AA in the gene encoding VDBP;
           Glu 416 Asp TT or TG in the gene encoding VDBP;
           exon 3 T/C RR in the gene encoding microsomal epoxide hydrolase (MEH);
          Arg 312 Gln AG or GG in the gene encoding SOD3;
25         MS or SS in the gene encoding alAT;
          Asp 299 Gly AG or GG in the gene encoding toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4);
           Gln 27 Glu CC in the gene encoding ADRB2;
           -518 AA in the gene encoding IL-11;
          Asp 298 Glu TT in the gene encoding NOS3; or
30         one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of these
          polymorphisms.
           Preferably, all polymorphisms of the group are analysed.
           Preferably, the susceptibility polymorphisms analysed are selected from one or
   more of the group consisting of:

                                                6
           -765 GG in the promoter of the gene encoding COX2;
           105 AA in the gene encoding IL-18;
           -133 CC in the promoter of the gene encoding 1L-18;
           -675 5G5G in the promoter of the gene encoding PAl-1;
 5         Lys 420 Thr CC in the gene encoding VDBP;
           Glu 416 Asp GG in the gene encoding VDBP;
           Ile 105 Val GG in the gene encoding GSTP1;
           Arg 312 Gln AA in the gene encoding SOD3;
           -1055 TT in the promoter of the gene encoding IL-13;
10         3' 1237 Tt or tt in the gene encoding alAT;
           -1607 2G2G in the promoter of the gene encoding MMP1; or
           one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of these
           polymorphisms.
           Preferably, all polymorphisms of the group are analysed.
15         In one embodiment each protective polymorphism is assigned a value of -1 and
   each susceptibility polymorphism is assigned a value of+1.
           In one embodiment each protective polymorphism is assigned a value of +1 and
   each susceptibility polymorphism is assigned a value of -1.
           When the disease is lung cancer, the protective polymorphisms analysed may be
20 selected from one or more of the group consisting of:
           the Asp 298 Glu TT genotype in the gene encoding NOS3;
           the Arg 312 Gln CG or GG genotype in the gene encoding SOD3;
           the Asn 357 Ser AG or GG genotype in the gene encoding MMP12;
          the 105 AC or CC genotype in the gene encoding IL-18;
25        the -133 CG or GG genotype in the gene encoding IL-18;
          the -765 CC or CG genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding COX2;
          the -221 TT genotype in the gene encoding Mucin 5AC (MUC5AC);
          the intron I C/T TT genotype in the gene encoding Arginase 1 (Arg1);
          the Leu252Val GG genotype in the gene encoding Insulin-like growth factor II
30         receptor (IGF2R);
           the -1082 GG genotype in the gene encoding Interleukin 10 (IL-10);
          the -251 AA genotype in the gene encoding Interleukin 8 (IL-8);
           the Arg 399 Gln AA genotype in the X-ray repair complementing defective in
           Chinese hamster I (XRCC1) gene;

                                             7
         the A870G GG genotype in the gene encoding cyclin D (CCND1);
         the -751 GG genotype in the promoter of the xeroderma pigmentosum
         complementation group D (XPD) gene;
         the Ile 462 Val AG or GG genotype in the gene encoding cytochrome P450 1A1
 5       (CYP1A1);
         the Ser 326 Cys GG genotype in the gene encoding 8-Oxoguanine DNA
         glycolase (OGGI);
         the Phe 257 Ser CC genotype in the gene encoding REVI;
         or one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with any one or more
10       of these polymorphisms.
         Preferably, all polymorphisms of the group are analysed.
         Preferably, the susceptibility polymorphisms analysed are selected from one or
   more of the group consisting of:
         the -786 TT genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding NOS3;
15       the Ala 15 Thr GG genotype in the gene encoding anti-chymotrypsin (ACT);
         the 105 AA genotype in the gene encoding IL-18;
         the -133 CC genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding IL-18;
         the 874 AA genotype in the gene encoding IFNy;
         the -765 GG genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding COX2;
20       the -447 CC or GC genotype in the gene encoding Connective tissue growth
         factor (CTGF); and
         the +161 AA or AG genotype in the gene encoding MBL2.
         the -511 GG genotype in the gene encoding IL-1B;
         the A-670G AA genotype in the gene encoding FAS (Apo-1/CD95);
25       the Arg 197 Gln GG genotype in the gene encoding N-acetyltransferase 2
         (NAT2);
         the Ile462 Val AA genotype in the gene encoding CYP1A1;
         the 1019 G/C Pst I CC or CG genotype in the gene encoding cytochrome P450
         2E1 (CYP2E1);
30       the C/T Rsa I TT or TC genotype in the gene encoding CYP2E1;
         the GSTM null genotype in the gene encoding GSTM;
         the -1607 2G/2G genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding MMPI;
         the Gln 185 Glu CC genotype in the gene encoding Nibrin (NBS 1);
         the Asp 148 Glu GG genotype in the gene encoding Apex nuclease (APEI);

                                                 8
           or one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with any one or more
           of these polymorphisms.
           Preferably, all polymorphisms of the group are analysed.
           In one embodiment each protective polymorphism is assigned a value of -1 and
 5 each susceptibility polymorphism is assigned a value of +1.
           In one embodiment each protective polymorphism is assigned a value of +1 and
   each susceptibility polymorphism is assigned a value of -1.
           In various embodiments the subject is or has been a smoker.
           Preferably, the methods of the invention are performed in conjunction with an
10 analysis of one or more risk factors, including one or more epidemiological risk factors,
   associated with the risk of developing a lung disease including COPD, emphysema,
   OCOPD, and lung cancer. Such epidemiological risk factors include but are not limited
   to smoking or exposure to tobacco smoke, age, sex, and familial history.
           In another aspect, the invention provides a method of determining a subject's
15 risk of developing a disease, said method comprising
           obtaining the result of one or more analyses of a sample from said subject to
   determine the presence or absence of protective polymorphisms and the presence or
   absence of susceptibility polymorphisms, and wherein said protective and susceptibility
   polymorphisms are associated with said disease;
20         assigning a positive score for each protective polymorphism and a negative score
   for each susceptibility polymorphism or vice versa;
           calculating a net score for said subject, said net score representing the balance
   between the combined value of the protective polymorphisms and the combined value
   of the susceptibility polymorphisms present in the subject sample;
25         wherein a net protective score is predictive of a reduced risk of developing said
   disease and a net susceptibility score is predictive of an increased risk of developingsaid
   disease.
           In a further aspect the present invention provides a method for assessing the risk
   of a subject developing a disease which comprises
30         determining a net score for said subject in accordance with the methods of the
   invention described above, in combination with a score based on the presence or
   absence of one or more epidemiological risk factors,

                                                   9
           wherein a net protective score is predictive of a reduced risk of developing said
   disease and a net susceptibility score is predictive of an increased predisposition and/or
   susceptibility to said disease.
           In another aspect, the present invention provides a kit for assessing a subject's
 5 risk of developing a disease, said kit comprising a means of analysing a sample from
   said subject for the presence or absence of one or more protective polymorphisms and
   one or more susceptibility polymorphisms as described herein.
           In yet a further aspect, the present invention provides a method of prophylactic
   or therapeutic intervention in relation to a subject having a net susceptibility score for a
10 disease as determined by a method as defined above which includes the steps of
   communicating to said subject said net susceptibility score, and advising on changes to
   the subject's lifestyle that could reduce the risk of developing said disease.
           In still a further aspect, the present invention provides a method of treatment of a
   subject to decrease to the risk of developing a disease through alteration of the net score
15 for said subject as determined by a method as defined above, wherein said method of
   treatment comprises
           reversing, genotypically or phenotypically, the presence and/or functional effect
   of one or more susceptibility polymorphisms associated with said disease; and/or
           replicating and/or mimicking, genotypically or phenotypically, the presence
20 and/or functional effect of one or more protective polymorphisms associated with said
   disease.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
   Figure 1:        depicts a graph showing combined frequencies of the presence or
25                  absence of selected protective genotypes in the COPD subjects and in
                    resistant smokers.
   Figure 2:        depicts a graph showing net scores for protective and susceptibility
                    polymorphisms in COPD subjects.
   Figure 3:        depicts a graph showing net scores for protective and susceptibility
30                  polymorphisms in OCOPD subjects.
   Figure 4:        depicts a graph showing net scores for protective and susceptibility
                    polymorphisms in subjects with lung cancer.

                                                10
   Figure 5:        depicts a graph showing net scores for protective and susceptibility
                   polymorphisms in subjects with lung cancer.
   DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
           The present invention is directed to methods for the assessment of the genetic
 5 risk quotient of a particular subject with respect to a particular disease. The methods
   rely upon the recognition that for many (if not all) diseases there exist genetic
   polymorphisms which fall into two categories - namely those indicative of a reduced
   risk   of developing      a  particular  disease    (which  can    be tended     "protective
   polymorphisms" or "protective SNPs") and those indicative of an increased risk of
10 developing a particular disease (which can be termed "susceptibility polymorphisms" or
   "susceptibility SNPs").
           As used herein, the phrase "risk of developing [a] disease" means the likelihood
   that a subject to whom the risk applies will develop the disease, and includes
   predisposition to, and potential onset of the disease. Accordingly, the phrase "increased
15 risk of developing [a] disease" means that a subject having such an increased risk
   possesses an hereditary inclination or tendency to develop the disease. This does not
   mean that such a person will actually develop the disease at any time, merely that he or
   she has a greater likelihood of developing the disease compared to the general
   population of individuals that either does not possess a polymorphism associated with
20 increased disease risk, or does possess a polymorphism associated with decreased
   disease risk. Subjects with an increased risk of developing the disease include those
   with a predisposition to the disease, for example in the case of COPD, a tendency or
   prediliction regardless of their lung function at the time of assessment, for example, a
   subject who is genetically inclined to COPD but who has normal lung function, those at
25 potential risk, for example in the case of COPD, subjects with a tendency to mildly
   reduced lung function who are likely to go on to suffer COPD if they keep smoking, and
   subjects with potential onset of the disease, for example in the case of COPD, subjects
   who have a tendency to poor lung function on spirometry etc., consistent with COPD at
   the time of assessment.
30         Similarly, the phrase "decreased risk of developing [a] disease" means that a
   subject having such a decreased risk possesses an hereditary disinclination or reduced
   tendency to develop the disease. This does not mean that such a person will not develop
   the disease at any time, merely that he or she has a decreased likelihood of developing

                                               11
   the disease compared to the general population of individuals that either does possess
   one or more polymorphisms associated with increased disease risk, or does not possess
   a polymorphism associated with decreased disease risk.
            It will be understood that in the context of the present invention the term
 5 "polymorphism"means the occurrence together in the same population at a rate greater
   than that attributable to random mutation (usually greater than 1%) of two or more
   alternate forms (such as alleles or genetic markers) of a chromosomal locus that differ
   in nucleotide sequence or have variable numbers of repeated nucleotide units.         See
   www.ornl.gov/sci/techresources/HumanGenome/publicat/97pr/O9gloss.html#p.
10 Accordingly, the term "polymorphisms" is used herein contemplates genetic variations,
   including single nucleotide substitutions, insertions and deletions of nucleotides,
   repetitive sequences (such as microsatellites), and the total or partial absence of genes
   (eg. null mutations).      As used herein, the term "polymorphisms" also includes
   genotypes and haplotypes. A genotype is the genetic composition at a specific locus or
15 set of loci.    A haplotype is a set of closely linked genetic markers present on one
   chromosome which are not easily separable by recombination, tend to be inherited
   together, and may be in linkage disequilibrium.       A haplotype can be identified by
   patterns of polymorphisms such as SNPs.          Similarly, the term "single nucleotide
   polymorphism" or "SNP" in the context of the present invention includes single base
20 nucleotide subsitutions and short deletion and insertion polymorphisms.It will further be
   understood that the term "disease" is used herein in its widest possible sense, and
   includes conditions which may be considered disorders and/or illnesses which have a
   genetic basis or to which the genetic makeup of the subject contributes.
            Using case-control    studies, the frequencies    of several genetic    variants
25 (polymorphisms) of candidate genes have been compared in disease sufferers, for
   example, in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) sufferers, in occupational
   chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (OCOPD) sufferers, and in lung cancer sufferers,
   and in control subjects not suffering from the relevant disease, for example smokers
   without lung cancer and with normal lung function. The majority of these candidate
30 genes have confirmed (or likely) functional effects on gene expression or protein
   function.
            In various specific embodiments, the frequencies of polymorphisms between
   blood donor controls, resistant subjects and those with COPD, the frequencies of
   polymorphisms between blood donor controls, resistant subjects and those with

                                                 12
   OCOPD, and the frequencies of polymorphisms between blood donor controls, resistant
   subjects and those with lung cancer, have been compared. This has resulted in both
   protective and susceptibility polymorphisms being identified for each disease.
           The surprising finding by the Applicant relevant to this invention is that a
 5 combined analysis of protective and susceptibility polymorphisms discriminatory for a
   given disease yields a result that is indicative of that subject's risk quotient for that
   disease. This approach is widely applicable, on a disease-by-disease basis.
           The present invention identifies methods of assessing the risk of a subject
   developing a disease which comprises determining in said subject the presence or
10 absence of protective and susceptibility polymorphisms associated with said disease. A
   net score for said subject is derived, said score representing the balance between the
   combined value of the protective polymorphisms present in said subject and the
   combined value of the susceptibility polymorphisms present in said subject. A net
   protective score is predictive of a reduced risk of developing said disease, and a net
15 susceptibility score is predictive of an increased risk of developing said disease.
           Within each category (protective polymorphisms, susceptibility polymorphisms,
   respectively) the polymorphisms can each be assigned the same value. For example, in
   the analyses presented in the Examples herein, each protective polymorphism associated
   with a given disease is assigned a value of +1, and each susceptibility polymorphism is
20 assigned a value of -1. Alternatively, polymorphisms discriminatory for a disease within
   the same category can each be assigned a different value to reflect their discriminatory
   value for said disease. For example, a polymorphism highly discriminatory of risk of
   developing a disease may be assigned a high weighting, for example a polymorphism
   with a high Odd's ratio can be considered highly discriminatory of disease, and can be
25 assigned a high weighting.
           Accordingly, in a first aspect, the present invention provides a method of
   assessing a subject's risk of developing a disease which comprises:
           analysing a biological sample from said subject for the presence or absence of
   protective   polymorphisms       and for the presence       or absence    of susceptibility
30 polymorphisms,     wherein     said protective   and susceptibility   polymorphisms     are
   associated with said disease;
           assigning a positive score for each protective polymorphism and a negative score
   for each susceptibility polymorphism or vice versa;

                                                13
           calculating a net score for said subject, said net score representing the balance
   between the combined value of the protective polymorphisms and the combined value
   of the susceptibility polymorphisms present in the subject sample;
           wherein a net protective score is predictive of a reduced risk of developing said
 5 disease and a net susceptibility score is predictive of an increased risk of developingsaid
   disease.
           The subject sample may have already been analysed for the presence or absence
   of one or more protective or susceptibility polymorphisms, and the method comprises
   the steps of
10         assigning a positive score for each protective polymorphism and a negative
   score for each susceptibility polymorphism or vice versa;
           calculating a net score for said subject, said net score representing the balance
   between the combined value of the protective polymorphisms and the combined value
   of the susceptibility polymorphisms present in the subject sample;
15         wherein a net protective score is predictive of a reduced risk of developing said
   disease and a net susceptibility score is predictive of an increased risk of developingsaid
   disease.
           In one embodiment described herein in Example 1, 17 susceptibility genetic
   polymorphisms and 19 protective genetic polymorphisms identified as discriminatory
20 for COPD were analysed using methods of the invention. These analyses can be used to
   determine the risk quotient of any subject for COPD, and in particular to identify
   subjects at greater risk of developing lung cancer.
           In another embodiment described herein in Example 2, 11 susceptibility genetic
   polymorphisms and 11 protective genetic polymorphisms identified as discriminatory
25 for OCOPD are analysed using methods of the invention. These analyses can be used to
   determine the risk quotient of any subject for OCOPD, and in particular to identify
   subjects at greater risk of developing OCOPD.
           In a further embodiment described herein in Example 3, 19 susceptibility genetic
   polymorphisms and 17 protective genetic polymorphisms identified as discriminatory
30 for lung cancer are analysed using methods of the invention. These analyses can be used
   to determine the risk quotient of any subject for lung cancer, and in particular to identify
   subjects at greater risk of developing lung cancer.
           Susceptibility and protective polymorphisms can readily be identified for other
   diseases using approaches similar to those described in the Examples, as well as in PCT

                                                 14
   International Application No. PCT/NZ02/00106 (published as WO 02/099134 and
   incorporated       by reference)    via which four     susceptibility  and three protective
   polymorphisms discriminatory for lung disease were identified.
             The one or more polymorphisms can be detected directly or by detection of one
 5 or more polymorphisms which are in linkage disequilibrium with said one or more
   polymorphisms. As discussed above, linkage disequilibrium is a phenomenon in
   genetics whereby two or more mutations or polymorphisms are in such close genetic
   proximity that they are co-inherited. This means that in genotyping, detection of one
   polymorphism as present infers the presence of the other. (Reich DE et al; Linkage
10 disequilibrium in the human genome, Nature 2001, 411:199-204.)
             Examples of polymorphisms reported to be in linkage disequilibrium are
   presented herein, and include the Interleukin-18 -133 C/G and 105 A/C polymorphisms,
   and the Vitamin D binding protein Glu 416 Asp and Lys 420 Thr polymorphisms, as
   shown below.
   Gene                  SNPs         rs        Alleles in      LD between       Phenotype in
                                      numbers    LD             alleles          COPD
   Interleukin-18        IL18 -133    rs360721   C allele       Strong LD        CC susceptible
                         C/G
                         IL18 105     rs549908  A allele                         AA susceptible
                         A/C
   Vitamin D             VDBP Lys     rs4588    A allele        Strong LD        AA/AC
   binding protein       420 Thr                                                 protective
                         VDBP Glu     rs7041     T allele                        TT/TG protective
                         416 Asp
15           It will be apparent that polymorphsisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or
   more other polymorphism associated with increased or decreased risk of developing
   COPD, emphysema, or both COPD and emphysema will also provide utility as
   biomarkers for risk of developing COPD, emphysema, or both COPD and emphysema.
   The data presented herein shows that the frequency for SNPs in linkage disequilibrium
20 is very similar. Accordingly, these genetically linked SNPs can be utilized in combined
   polymorphism analyses to derive a level of risk comparable to that calculated from the
   original SNP.
             It will therefore be apparent that one or more polymorphisms in linkage
   disequilibrium with the polymorphisms specified herein can be identified, for example,
25 using public data bases. Examples of such polymorphisms reported to be in linkage
   disequilibrium with the polymorphisms specified herein are presented herein in Table
   21.

                                                15
           The methods of the invention are primarily reliant on genetic information such
   as that derived from methods suitable to the detection and identification of single
   nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with the specific disease for which a risk
   assessment is desired.     SNP is a single base change or point mutation resulting in
 5 genetic variation between individuals. SNPs occur in the human genome approximately
   once every 100 to 300 bases, and can occur in coding or non-coding regions. Due to the
   redundancy of the genetic code, a SNP in the coding region may or may not change the
   amino acid sequence of a protein product. A SNP in a non-coding region can, for
   example, alter gene expression by, for example, modifying control regions such as
10 promoters, transcription factor binding sites, processing sites, ribosomal binding sites,
   and affect gene transcription, processing, and translation.
           SNPs can facilitate large-scale association genetics studies, and there has
   recently been great interest in SNP discovery and detection. SNPs show great promise
   as markers for a number of phenotypic traits (including latent traits), such as for
15 example, disease propensity and severity, wellness propensity, and drug responsiveness
   including, for example, susceptibility to adverse drug reactions. Knowledge of the
   association of a particular SNP with a phenotypic trait, coupled with the knowledge of
   whether an individual has said particular SNP, can enable the targeting of diagnostic,
   preventative and therapeutic applications to allow better disease management, to
20 enhance understanding of disease states and to ultimately facilitate the discovery of
   more effective treatments, such as personalised treatment regimens.
           Indeed, a number of databases have been constructed of known SNPs, and for
   some such SNPs, the biological effect associated with a SNP. For example, the NCBI
   SNP database "dbSNP" is incorporated into NCBI's Entrez system and can be queried
25 using the same approach as the other Entrez databases such as PubMed and GenBank.
   This database has records for over 1.5 million SNPs mapped onto the human genome
   sequence. Each dbSNP entry includes the sequence context of the polymorphism (i.e.,
   the surrounding sequence), the occurrence          frequency of the polymorphism (by
   population or individual), and the experimental method(s), protocols, and conditions
30 used to assay the variation, and can include information associating a SNP with a
   particular phenotypic trait.
           At least in part because of the potential impact on health and wellness, there has
   been and continues to be a great deal of effort to develop methods that reliably and
   rapidly identify SNPs. This is no trivial task, at least in part because of the complexity

                                                 16
   of human genomic DNA, with a haploid genome of 3 x 109 base pairs, and the
   associated sensitivity and discriminatory requirements.
            Genotyping approaches to detect SNPs well-known in the art include DNA
   sequencing, methods that require allele specific hybridization of primers or probes,
 5 allele specific incorporation of nucleotides to primers bound close to or adjacent to the
   polymorphisms (often referred to as "single base extension", or "minisequencing"),
   allele-specific ligation (joining) of oligonucleotides (ligation chain reaction or ligation
   padlock probes), allele-specific cleavage of oligonucleotides or PCR products by
   restriction enzymes (restriction fragment length polymorphisms analysis or RFLP) or
10 chemical or other agents, resolution of allele-dependent differences in electrophoretic or
   chromatographic mobilities, by structure specific enzymes including invasive structure
   specific enzymes, or mass spectrometry. Analysis of amino acid variation is also
   possible where the SNP lies in a coding region and results in an amino acid change.
            DNA sequencing allows the direct determination and identification of SNPs.
15 The benefits in specificity and accuracy are generally outweighed for screening
   purposes by the difficulties inherent in whole genome, or even targeted subgenome,
   sequencing.
            Mini-sequencing involves allowing a primer to hybridize to the DNA sequence
   adjacent to the SNP site on the test sample under investigation. The primer is extended
20 by one nucleotide using all four differentially tagged fluorescent dideoxynucleotides
   (A,C,G, or T), and a DNA polymerase. Only one of the four nucleotides (homozygous
   case) or two of the four nucleotides (heterozygous case) is incorporated. The base that is
   incorporated is complementary to the nucleotide at the SNP position.
            A number of methods currently used for SNP detection involve site-specific
25 and/or allele-specific hybridisation. These methods are largely reliant on the
   discriminatory binding of oligonucleotides to target sequences containing the SNP of
   interest. The techniques of Affymetrix (Santa Clara, Calif.) and Nanogen Inc. (San
   Diego, Calif.) are particularly well-known, and utilize the fact that DNA duplexes
   containing single base mismatches are much less stable than duplexes that are perfectly
30 base-paired. The presence of a matched duplex is detected by fluorescence.
            The majority of methods to detect or identify SNPs by site-specific hybridisation
   require target amplification by methods such as PCR to increase sensitivity and
   specificity (see, for example U.S. Pat. No. 5,679,524, PCT publication WO 98/59066,
   PCT publication WO 95/12607). US Application 20050059030 (incorporated herein in

                                                 17
   its entirety) describes a method for detecting a single nucleotide polymorphism in total
   human DNA without prior amplification or complexity reduction to selectively enrich
   for the target sequence, and without the aid of any enzymatic reaction. The method
   utilises a single-step hybridization involving two hybridization events: hybridization of
 5 a first portion of the target sequence to a capture probe, and hybridization of a second
   portion of said target sequence to a detection probe. Both hybridization events happen
   in the same reaction, and the order in which hybridisation occurs is not critical.
            US Application 20050042608 (incorporated herein in its entirety) describes a
   modification of the method of electrochemical detection of nucleic acid hybridization of
10 Thorp et al. (U.S. Pat. No. 5,871,918). Briefly, capture probes are designed, each of
   which has a different SNP base and a sequence of probe bases on each side of the SNP
   base. The probe bases are complementary to the corresponding target sequence adjacent
   to the SNP site. Each capture probe is immobilized on a different electrode having a
   non-conductive outer layer on a conductive working surface of a substrate. The extent
15 of hybridization between each capture probe and the nucleic acid target is detected by
   detecting the oxidation-reduction reaction at each electrode, utilizing a transition metal
   complex. These differences in the oxidation rates at the different electrodes are used to
   determine whether the selected nucleic acid target has a single nucleotide polymorphism
   at the selected SNP site.
20          The technique of Lynx Therapeutics (Hayward, Calif.) using MEGATYPET"
   technology can genotype very large numbers of SNPs simultaneously from small or
   large pools of genomic material. This technology uses fluorescently labeled probes and
   compares the collected genomes of two populations, enabling detection and recovery of
   DNA fragments spanning SNPs that distinguish the two populations, without requiring
25 prior SNP mapping or knowledge.
            A number of other methods for detecting and identifying SNPs exist. These
   include the use of mass spectrometry, for example, to measure probes that hybridize to
   the SNP. This technique varies in how rapidly it can be performed, from a few samples
   per day to a high throughput of 40,000 SNPs per day, using mass code tags. A preferred
30 example is the use of mass spectrometric determination of a nucleic acid sequence
   which comprises the polymorphisms of the invention, for example, which includes the
   promoter of the COX2 gene or a complementary sequence. Such mass spectrometric
   methods are known to those skilled in the art, and the genotyping methods of the
   invention are amenable to adaptation for the mass spectrometric detection of the

                                                18
   polymorphisms of the invention, for example, the COX2 promoter polymorphisms of
   the invention.
            SNPs can also be determined by ligation-bit analysis. This analysis requires two
   primers that hybridize to a target with a one nucleotide gap between the primers. Each
 5 of the four nucleotides is added to a separate reaction mixture containing DNA
   polyinerase, ligase, target DNA and the primers. The polymerase adds a nucleotide to
   the 3'end of the first primer that is complementary to the SNP, and the ligase then
   ligates the two adjacent primers together. Upon heating of the sample, if ligation has
   occurred, the now larger primer will remain hybridized and a signal, for example,
10 fluorescence, can be detected. A further discussion of these methods can be found in
   U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,919,626; 5,945,283; 5,242,794; and 5,952,174.
            US Patent 6,821,733 (incorporated herein in its entirety) describes methods to
   detect differences in the sequence of two nucleic acid molecules that includes the steps
   of: contacting two nucleic acids under conditions that allow the formation of a four-way
15 complex and branch migration; contacting the four-way complex with a tracer molecule
   and a detection molecule under conditions in which the detection molecule is capable of
   binding the tracer molecule or the four-way complex; and determining binding of the
   tracer molecule to the detection molecule before and after exposure to the four-way
   complex. Competition of the four-way complex with the tracer molecule for binding to
20 the detection molecule indicates a difference between the two nucleic acids.
            Protein- and proteomics-based approaches are also suitable for polymorphism
   detection and analysis. Polymorphisms which result in or are associated with variation
   in expressed proteins can be detected directly by analysing said proteins. This typically
   requires separation of the various proteins within a sample, by, for example, gel
25 electrophoresis or HPLC, and identification of said proteins or peptides derived
   therefrom, for example by NMR or protein sequencing such as chemical sequencing or
   more prevalently mass spectrometry. Proteomic methodologies are well known in the
   art, and have great potential for automation. For example, integrated systems, such as
   the ProteomIQTM system from Proteome Systems, provide high throughput platforms
30 for proteome analysis combining sample preparation, protein separation, image
   acquisition and analysis, protein processing, mass spectrometry and bioinformatics
   technologies.
            The majority of proteomic methods of protein identification utilise mass
   spectrometry, including ion trap mass spectrometry, liquid chromatography (LC) and

                                                 19
   LC/MSn mass spectrometry, gas chromatography (GC) mass spectroscopy, Fourier
   transform-ion cyclotron resonance-mass spectrometer (FT-MS), MALDI-TOF mass
   spectrometry, and ESI mass spectrometry, and their derivatives. Mass spectrometric
   methods are also useful in the determination of post-translational modification of
 5 proteins, such as phosphorylation or glycosylation, and thus have utility in determining
   polymorphisms that result in or are associated with variation in post-translational
   modifications of proteins.
           Associated technologies are also well known, and include, for example, protein
   processing devices such as the "Chemical Inkjet Printer" comprising piezoelectric
10 printing technology that allows in situ enzymatic or chemical digestion of protein
   samples electroblotted from 2-D PAGE gels to membranes by jetting the enzyme or
   chemical directly onto the selected protein spots. After in-situ digestion and incubation
   of the proteins, the membrane can be placed directly into the mass spectrometer for
   peptide analysis.
15         A large number of methods reliant on the conformational variability of nucleic
   acids have been developed to detect SNPs.
           For example, Single Strand Conformational Polymorphism (SSCP, Orita et al.,
   PNAS 1989 86:2766-2770) is a method reliant on the ability of single-stranded nucleic
   acids to form secondary structure in solution under certain conditions. The secondary
20 structure depends on the base composition and can be altered by a single nucleotide
   substitution, causing differences in electrophoretic mobility under nondenaturing
   conditions. The various polymorphs are typically detected by autoradiography when
   radioactively labelled, by silver staining of bands, by hybridisation with detectably
   labelled probe fragments or the use of fluorescent PCR primers which are subsequently
25 detected, for example by an automated DNA sequencer.
           Modifications of SSCP are well known in the art, and include the use of
   differing gel running conditions, such as for example differing temperature, or the
   addition of additives, and different gel matrices. Other variations on SSCP are well
   known to the skilled artisan, including,RNA-SSCP, restriction endonuclease
30 fingerprinting-SSCP, dideoxy fingerprinting (a hybrid between dideoxy sequencing and
   SSCP), bi-directional dideoxy fingerprinting (in which the dideoxy termination reaction
   is performed simultaneously with two opposing primers), and Fluorescent PCR-SSCP
   (in which PCR products are internally labelled with multiple fluorescent dyes, may be

                                                20
   digested with restriction enzymes, followed by SSCP, and analysed on an automated
   DNA sequencer able to detect the fluorescent dyes).
            Other methods which utilise the varying mobility of different nucleic acid
   structures include Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (DGGE), Temperature
 5 Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (TGGE), and Heteroduplex Analysis (HET). Here,
   variation in the dissociation of double stranded DNA (for example, due to base-pair
   mismatches) results in a change in electrophoretic mobility. These mobility shifts are
   used to detect nucleotide variations.
           Denaturing High Pressure Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) is yet a further
10 method utilised to detect SNPs, using HPLC methods well-known in the art as an
   alternative to the separation methods described above (such as gel electophoresis) to
   detect, for example, homoduplexes and heteroduplexes which elute from the HPLC
   column at different rates, thereby enabling detection of mismatch nucleotides and thus
   SNPs.
15          Yet further methods to detect SNPs rely on the differing susceptibility of single
   stranded and double stranded nucleic acids to cleavage by various agents, including
   chemical cleavage agents and nucleolytic enzymes. For example, cleavage of
   mismatches within RNA:DNA heteroduplexes by RNase A, of heteroduplexes by, for
   example bacteriophage T4 endonuclease YII or T7 endonuclease I, of the 5' end of the
20 hairpin loops at the junction between single stranded and double stranded DNA by
   cleavase I, and the modification of mispaired nucleotides within heteroduplexes by
   chemical agents commonly used in Maxam-Gilbert sequencing chemistry, are all well
   known in the art.
           Further examples include the Protein Translation Test (PTT), used to resolve
25 stop codons generated by variations which lead to a premature termination of translation
   and to protein products of reduced size, and the use of mismatch binding proteins.
   Variations are detected by binding of, for example, the MutS protein, a component of
   Escherichiacoli DNA mismatch repair system, or the human hMSH2 and GTBP
   proteins, to double stranded DNA heteroduplexes containing mismatched bases. DNA
30 duplexes are then incubated with the mismatch binding protein, and variations are
   detected by mobility shift assay. For example, a simple assay is based on the fact that
   the binding of the mismatch binding protein to the heteroduplex protects the
   heteroduplex from exonuclease degradation.

                                               21
            Those skilled in the art will know that a particular SNP, particularly when it
   occurs in a regulatory region of a gene such as a promoter, can be associated with
   altered expression of a gene. Altered expression of a gene can also result when the SNP
   is located in the coding region of a protein-encoding gene, for example where the SNP
 5 is associated with codons of varying usage and thus with tRNAs of differing abundance.
   Such altered expression can be determined by methods well known in the art, and can
   thereby be employed to detect such SNPs. Similarly, where a SNP occurs in the coding
   region of a gene and results in a non-synonomous amino acid substitution, such
   substitution can result in a change in the function of the gene product. Similarly, in
10 cases where the gene product is an RNA, such SNPs can result in a change of function
   in the RNA gene product. Any such change in function, for example as assessed in an
   activity or functionality assay, can be employed to detect such SNPs.
            The above methods of detecting and identifying SNPs are amenable to use in the
   methods of the invention.
15          In practicing the present invention to assess the risk a particular subject faces
   with respect to a particular disease, that subject will be assessed to determine the
   presence or absence of polymorphisms (preferably SNPs) which are either associated
   with protection from the disease or susceptibility to the disease.
            In order to detect and identify SNPs in accordance with the invention, a sample
20 containing material to be tested is obtained from the subject. The sample can be any
   sample potentially containing the target SNPs (or target polypeptides, as the case may
   be) and obtained from any bodily fluid (blood, urine, saliva, etc) biopsies or other tissue
   preparations.
            DNA or RNA can be isolated from the sample according to any of a number of
25 methods well known in the art. For example, methods of purification of nucleic acids
   are described in Tijssen; Laboratory Techniques in Biochemistry and Molecular
   Biology:     Hybridization with nucleic acid probes Part 1:      Theory and Nucleic acid
   preparation, Elsevier, New York, N.Y. 1993, as well as in Maniatis, T., Fritsch, E. F.
   and Sambrook, J., Molecular Cloning Manual 1989.
30          Upon detection of the presence or absence of the polymorphisms tested for, the
   critical step is to determine a net susceptibility score for the subject. This score will
   represent the balance between the combined value of the protective polymorphisms
   present and the total value of the susceptibility polymorphisms present, with a net
   protective score (i.e., a greater weight of protective polymorphisms present than

                                                22
   susceptibility polymorphisms) being predictive of a reduced risk of developing the
   disease in question. The reverse is true where there is a net susceptibility score. To
   calculate where the balance lies, the individual polymorphisms are assigned a value. In
   the simplest embodiment, each polymorphisms within a category (i.e. protective or
 5 susceptibility) is assigned an equal value, with each protective polymorphism being -1
   and each susceptibility polymorphism being +1 (or vice versa).               It is however
   contemplated that the values assigned to individual polymorphisms within a category
   can differ, with some polymorphisms being assigned a value that reflects their
   predictive or discriminatory value.      For example, one particularly strong protective
10 polymorphism may have a value of -2, whereas another more weakly protective
   polymorphism may have a value of -0.75.
           The net score, and the associated predictive outcome in terms of the risk of the
   subject developing a particular disease, can be represented in a number of ways. One
   example is as a graph as more particularly exemplified herein.
15         Another example is a simple numerical score (eg +2 to represent a subject with a
   net susceptibility score or -2 to represent a subject with a net protective score). In each
   case, the result is communicated to the subject with an explanation of what that result
   means to that subject. Preferably, advice on ways the subject may change their lifestyle
   so as to reduce the risk of developing the disease is also communicated to the subject.
20         It will be appreciated that the methods of the invention can be performed in
   conjunction with an analysis of other risk factors known to be associated with a disease,
   such as COPD, emphysema, OCOPD, or lung cancer. Such risk factors include
   epidemiological risk factors associated with an increased risk of developing the disease.
   Such risk factors include, but are not limited to smoking and/or exposure to tobacco
25 smoke, age, sex and familial history. These risk factors can be used to augment an
   analysis of one or more polymorphisms as herein described when assessing a subject's
   risk of developing a disease such as COPD, emphysema, OCOPD, or lung cancer.
           The predictive methods of the invention allow a number of therapeutic
   interventions and/or treatment regimens to be assessed for suitability and implemented
30 for a given subject, depending upon the disease and the overall risk quotient.          The
   simplest of these can be the provision to a subject with a net susceptibility score of
   motivation to implement a lifestyle change, for example, in the case of OCOPD, to
   reduce exposure to aero-pollutants, for example, by an occupational change or by the
   use of safety equipment in the work place.       Similarly where the subject is a current

                                                23
   smoker, the methods of the invention can provide motivation to quit smoking. In this
   latter case, a 'quit smoking' program can be followed, which may include the use of
   anti-smoking medicaments (such as nicotine patches and the like) as well as anti
   addiction medicaments.
 5          Other therapeutic interventions can involve altering the balance between
   protective and susceptibility polymorphisms towards a protective state (such as by
   neutralizing or reversing a susceptibility polymorphism).     The manner of therapeutic
   intervention or treatment will be predicated by the nature of the polymorphism(s) and
   the biological effect of said polymorphism(s). For example, where a susceptibility
10 polymorphism is associated with a change in the expression of a gene, intervention or
   treatment is preferably directed to the restoration of normal expression of said gene, by,
   for example, administration of an agent capable of modulating the expression of said
   gene. Where a polymorphism, such as a SNP allele or genotype, is associated with
   decreased expression of a gene, therapy can involve administration of an agent capable
15 of increasing the expression of said gene, and conversely, where a polymorphism is
   associated with increased expression of a gene, therapy can involve administration of an
   agent capable of decreasing the expression of said gene. Methods useful for the
   modulation of gene expression are well known in the art. For example, in situations
   were a polymorphism is associated with upregulated expression of a gene, therapy
20 utilising, for example, RNAi or antisense methodologies can be implemented to
   decrease the abundance of mRNA and so decrease the expression of said gene.
   Alternatively, therapy can involve methods directed to, for example, modulating the
   activity of the product of said gene, thereby compensating for the abnormal expression
   of said gene.
25          Where a susceptibility polymorphism is associated with decreased gene product
   function or decreased levels of expression of a gene product, therapeutic intervention or
   treatment can involve augmenting or replacing of said function, or supplementing the
   amount of gene product within the subject for example, by administration of said gene
   product or a functional analogue thereof. For example, where a polymorphism is
30 associated with decreased enzyme function, therapy can involve administration of active
   enzyme or an enzyme analogue to the subject. Similarly, where a polymorphism is
   associated with increased gene product function, therapeutic intervention or treatment
   can involve reduction of said function, for example, by administration of an inhibitor of
   said gene product or an agent capable of decreasing the level of said gene product in the

                                                24
   subject. For example, where a polymorphism is associated with increased enzyme
   function, therapy can involve administration of an enzyme inhibitor to the subject.
           Likewise, when a protective polymorphism is associated with upregulation of a
   particular gene or expression of an enzyme or other protein, therapies can be directed to
 5 mimic such upregulation or expression in an individual lacking the resistive genotype,
   and/or delivery of such enzyme or other protein to such individual Further, when a
   protective polymorphism is associated with downregulation of a particular gene, or with
   diminished or eliminated expression of an enzyme or other protein, desirable therapies
   can be directed to mimicking such conditions in an individual that lacks the protective
10 genotype.
                                         EXAMPLES
            The invention will now be described in more detail, with reference to non
   limiting examples.
                EXAMPLE 1. CASE ASSOCIATION STUDY - COPD
15 METHODS
   Subject recruitment
            Subjects of European descent who had smoked a minimum of fifteen pack years
   and diagnosed by a physician with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) were
   recruited. Subjects met the following criteria: were over 50 years old and had developed
20 symptoms of breathlessness after 40 years of age, had a Forced expiratory volume in
   one second (FEV1) as a percentage of predicted <70% and a FEV1/FVC ratio (Forced
   expiratory volume in one second/Forced vital capacity) of < 79% (measured using
   American Thoracic Society criteria). Two hundred and ninety-four subjects were
   recruited, of these 58% were male, the mean FEV1/FVC ( 95%confidence limits) was
25 51% (49-53), mean FEVI as a percentage of predicted was 43 (41-45). Mean age,
   cigarettes per day and pack year history was 65 yrs (64-66), 24 cigarettes/day (22-25)
   and 50 pack years (41-55) respectively. Two hundred and seventeen European subjects
   who had smoked a minimum of twenty pack years and who had never suffered
   breathlessness and had not been diagnosed with an obstructive lung disease in the past,
30 in particular childhood asthma or chronic obstructive lung disease, were also studied.
   This control group was recruited through clubs for the elderly and consisted of 63%
   male, the mean FEV1/FVC ( 95%CI) was 82% (81-83), mean FEVI as a percentage of

                                               25
   predicted was 96 (95-97). Mean age, cigarettes per day and pack year history was 59 yrs
   (57-61), 24 cigarettes/day (22-26) and 42 pack years (39-45) respectively. Using a PCR
   based method [1, incorporated herein in its entirety by reference], all subjects were
   genotyped for the c I -antitrypsin mutations (S and Z alleles) and those with the ZZ
 5 allele were excluded. The COPD and resistant smoker cohorts were matched for
   subjects with the MZ genotype (5% in each cohort). 190 European blood donors
   (smoking status unknown) were recruited consecutively through local blood donor
   services. Sixty-three percent were men and their mean age was 50 years. On regression
   analysis, the age difference and pack years difference observed between COPD
10 sufferers and resistant smokers was found not to determine FEV or COPD.
           This study shows that polymorphisms found in greater frequency in COPD
   patients compared to controls (and/or resistant smokers) can reflect an increased
   susceptibility to the development of impaired lung function and COPD.            Similarly,
   polymorphisms found in greater frequency in resistant smokers compared to susceptible
15 smokers (COPD patients and/or controls) can reflect a protective role.
   Summary of characteristics for the COPD, resistant smoker and healthy blood donors
   Parameter               COPD                  Resistant smokers      Differences
   Median (IQR)             N=294                N=217
   % male                  58%                   63%                    ns
   Age (yrs)               65 (64-661)           59 (57-61)             P<0.05
   Packyears               50 (46-53)            42 (39-45)             P<0.05
   Cigarettes/day          24 (22-25)            24(22-26)              ns
   FEVi (L)                1.6 (0.7-2.5)         2.9 (2.8-3.0)          P<0.05
   FEVi %predict           43 (41-45)            96% (95-97)            P<0.05
   FEV1/FVC                51 (49-53)            82 (81-83)             P<0.05
   Means and 95% confidence limits
   Cyclo-oxygenase 2 (COX2) -765 G/C promoter polymorphism and al-antitrypsin
20 genotyping
           Genomic DNA was extracted from whole blood samples [2, incorporated herein
   in its entirety by reference]. The Cyclo-oxygenase 2 -765 polymorphism was

                                               26
   determined by minor modifications of a previously published method [3, incorporated
   herein in its entirety by reference]. The PCR reaction was carried out in a total volume
   of 25ul and contained 20 ng genomic DNA, 500pmol forward and reverse primers,
   0.2mM dNTPs, 10 mM Tris-HCL (pH 8.4), 150 mM KCI, 1.0 mM MgCl2 and 1 unit of
 5 polymerase (Life Technologies). Cycling times were incubations for 3 min at 95'C
   followed by 33 cycles of 50s at 940C, 60s at 66'C and 60s at 720C. A final elongation of
    10 min at 720C then followed. 4ul of PCR products were visualised by ultraviolet trans
   illumination of a 3% agarose gel stained with ethidium bromide. An aliquot of 3ul of
   amplification product was digested for 1 hr with 4 units of Acil (Roche Diagnostics,
10 New Zealand) at 37C. Digested products were separated on a 2.5% agarose gel run for
   2.0 hours at 80 mV with TBE buffer. The products were visualised against a 123bp
   ladder using ultraviolet transillumination after ethidium bromide staining. Using a PCR
   based method referenced above [1], all COPD and resistant smoker subjects were
   genotyped for the a 1-antitrypsin S and Z alleles.
15         Other polymorphism genotyping
           Genomic DNA was extracted from whole blood samples [2]. Purified genomic
   DNA was aliquoted (10 ng/ul concentration) into 96 well plates and genotyped on a
   Sequenom TM system (Sequenom TM Autoflex Mass Spectrometer and Samsung 24 pin
   nanodispenser) using the following sequences, amplification conditions and methods.
20         The following conditions were used for the PCR multiplex reaction: final
   concentrations were for 10xBuffer 15 mM MgCl2 1.25x, 25mM MgCl2 1.625mM,
   dNTP mix 25 mM 500uM, primers 4 uM 100nM, Taq polymerase (Qiagen hot start)
   0.15U/reaction, Genomic DNA 10 ng/ul. Cycling times were 950C for 15 min, (50C for
   15 s, 560C 30s, 720C 30s for 45 cycles with a prolonged extension time of 3min to
25 finish. Shrimp alkaline phosphotase (SAP) treatment was used (2ul to 5ul per PCR
   reaction) incubated at 350C for 30 min and extension reaction (add 2ul to 7ul after SAP
   treatment) with the following volumes per reaction of: water, 0.76ul; hME lOx
   termination buffer, 0.2ul; hME primer (1OuM), lul; MassEXTEND enzyme, 0.04ul.
30

0z             _4 Zo                                      Fo               o
       C             y)     y    y      yM )                        o)   C
0      0      0      0      0    0      0      0       0     0     0   m
 oH    -o     -o     -H     -H   -      -e     -             -     -   m
                                                             CYI C         0
                               -I0                                           m
o o
00               0000
                000000000wrl)PQIl           000000
  0    0      >      >      >    >     >          >    >           o
         0 0>                             0
          >00o                     0>                 0
-j         -                0           0 > 0          0     >             0
       0               0 y>      0      y0>            0
           >0>             0                    0
>       1     0      0           0      >
    -H                  00a             0                0 >       -a
                     m                 -(7                  Z0
          m   y        mm          9op.em                 oPmP
  0           z         Pz o     z Z         z      z        z     z
          i C1                      -    >4
          000>       o              >0>o               oo0
       000000z                               000                 0
0          9>      ay
                  > a a -9
                            oy
                                 oa0-Ha>       oo     09     o
                                                             o0
 a     00                00           Ho             0oa
0      0      0      0      0    0      0       0            0     0
  000                     >00                >               >0>
0>            0                                 >            0     0
,o;       00000o                       .S         0000o
    m  CI     C/     Cl     C/   C/             y
    m         m      m      m    m      m       o      ol    o'    C/
       P 5           5           5      P       5
       o)    o)      o~      o   9~      -'     o      o           0

          ;a~ 0                 <<                              ;u -0 ZTz                   Z
           -           -,-                   m        >9                                    -z
         >      q                            ft-    >               )     G)      C.
        CD                                                   o                               -D  0)C
                            cn coc0          oP                       0     nC
                              to~~~~~              C~          roC     :
                         G)z                                                   c
                                                 0                                      rj
                                        >-            -  -  -    -  -  -    -   - -         Z    f
           00  0>           0                         mm  -       C     0CDC         D
   CD              00               01~      W      M) -4a                              -(0 DC)N
En N      00Hm0w                -I(          o
       000000>                      Om0
                        -4.         04
                                    0 G)0-jI
     HO     5    >          C)       0)
                     >                               ----    0(                          .
   0
       ~H     >      oom            o
g7zooounm-Z.z                                                                               3
oP07>zim ooo-o                                                                              zZ
0      M>ooP
     z         Z                                                                            0
           p     0-c                                        0   0N)   111 )    (D N  (1   N
                                                  00
                                                  I-)
                              r-o~z
                                        m                   X
                                        C)          CD04wwmN)-                                      oC

H          > H        >> >           H           0                                   ><
   0000                    0       0C            >        00                  0D
0n                                   HZ        H       H        H
        0-            0'     0       W           HA 0                  0       H
   H                  H      H                              > 0
           O>0>                                        H)                        H
                                     oG)                         0      G) -  -~
                      0)     C)      0         o                0C     H
                         0                             H)              0          0
                               o0                           > G)        >
         0                           -)          0       G)                    >
rn            C) H.>                 >          m       -)       z 0
              0 0 >            c-                G)             -- 0           Cp
                                     >         G)      >)       >
              C)      >              G)        G
     C)                              >         >
   0      0      >     0       0       0       0       0       0     0       0        m
                    m       'Fnm
                               z               0                       p
                                m          M                                         m
                                                                              z
                                             pN      tb,
     C0N)     N        )     4r.                 )     -Q                ~
                    H>>      0
                                                                                     0
                                                                                0
                                        ~P~0
                                         0 .          0 ~zz>                   zo
         00         Hw                     00               r~l      0     00,      I~
   H/       0       0    07En             > >07) Z30                 OH           0,i - '3 -7
                    000                   0>
    al()C)          >      >      0     0
         00
                                0>
                                         G),
                  )                       >~       (
                 >       0                   0           02                01 O
   G)   N   )          C             C)        C       G)        > ~    O      N

  5     >                                   0             0 Z                 K       0)H C ) I   ~C   C/) H C/)I- CA
             0        m       >      m      r-     Zn                    T            a)    K      z      -,ze
                                     -H     02                  -0c                         >      -n
                     -~(i        -   -       +                                        (D                   CW~D
       --A                                  N   C)                                    co           cc      CD     mHN)
                                   CC)
      0 )      0       0      0        C)    0      0      0     0    0        0       0    0 m        C) 0C,~
Go      G)     0       G)     0)       C)    0      0)     G)    0)   G)       0)      G)    G)     >G) G)
G)      G)     G)      0)     G)       G)    G)     0      G)    0)   0)       0)     G 0         )C~)
           >    >     >      C)      C        0>                 >    H         00                   00)
>)     H      H>)C)H                                                      0   H        H
H                                                         >H H H O>           >             >
G)     C)      H      H                                                       -4      0) H ) C ) >
 >                     )     C         )     HH>                 >)              )          >       C)      H>
C)      C)           0>       C)GC                     )   C)0HC                                                C> )
                             >           H  >      H>           0     H       C>                )            >
       >)     0       C)                                             >        G               HOC)0
       >      >H                                          >C)0                0
 C)    C)     G)
              G)
                       >0                                 >)   >H                                    O-C0
                                                                                     >)                      >     0
                          C)                       C       >     )      ~        00          )     >         0
                  G)                                        C)                        )      >             >       -.
             H         C>            H      0       C>                        $       >            >~ C)C
       G)            C)                            H      H    H                        )   C              G)>>
mT                    T,                                       -~
                                            mq      m      CS co1Q                          C
o       G)           9D0     0            0            0   9             0            0     0      0
       >)                    >                                       >_   _   0       0   N                >
                                                                     0                      >H
   H>          H                     0      > HC         H        0>                   0     H0
    OH        0              C)        H                 H   0
                                                                 )   Cj                H    >      C
                                                                                                   >>
    H G      H                              C         H                >    >         C     C)       )
 C)>         C)      C        >>                   C       C)  >      H       C              )     >~
C )>> >0 C)    H
                     C
                      H      C
                             H
                                     C
                                     H
                                              )     C>j
                                                          H)
                                                                              C    0        H
                                                               G)C)                  H      C
~>             >      H                                   > 00                                             0
                          G)                                                                         H-G)
       >~     ---                                                              ,                   H)>-,
       C)     C00             HO             C)G                                                   >       G
                                   G)H                                     H C)        H     )
G     H        0       ) C)>)                                  >     o          H)
                                                    0 >                                                    C) G
0)                   G 00                   G) 0 0 0G                0        C)            >      C)      c

                                                                               <   (DM     o                  L0 --    - -.- L   c)   ) LO (.0 14 u)
                                                                                   IC-mL       CN
                                                                                               l     )C4I          I    C f)        M-         I  0o
                            LL ~~~~             C'L       LO        ~
                                                                   LLL         HO LO 0              ~)    M C C          ;                  ' LLOL
                                                                                                                                                 T M
       (D ')t     OL         i)C         D0C-~~C    T          L
                                                               ":(             w00L L      oL       o(       or        o       Mc        r         TU
      C)   or-w"(               o        6                  -c
                       z                                                       -)
    z
    0
             com N co    0 co c co 1-0W-             -r     N(      0C
               rC    -                         C   (  m M m M r-    -- co m c00a,(
    0
                                                                                                       U          CD
       q   oI-           Mr          oC     -     Lo-      Lo          o            00                                                            L
              CDMC         MC       C    DC   CD --     -   -  --                   0                                         (n~~~ D~3C HH D
                       0                                                    OO             0CD             D< -0O          H 0 U(
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                          :~~~~~                     0H02HH                   C
                                                                           r--        C-<0000                         o H<CH CD cD
                                                                                      ~Wto0             HCD                    MCI-- M0<H D
                                                                                    N 0 CD CD CDC                          I   M0                  "00
                     oo                                                                U-        - o(              oL          o 0u)L                 '
422
         C         0DD
        CD          cn               <1co<
                                 C?            c                                    C?        <         o         c (       <       :~<
                                              co          ~ ~     CD                                   IT'          CD        H           a         C
    o o m w~>aCD   00        CN         00I         50  a~'~C)                          m     00Q
to      a)00>.CD             Q              +1 5-                       N ,<0ci                                                        1
                   m      -  O   Ui                                                                             I     CO        ~ ~
                              C~)W+5~(D(DU
                                                            LO0'J               _   cu +l      Cl
                                                                                                   CD
                                                                                                          )'oLO
                                                                                                            z
        CDZ            ZCLM           Z-Jco                                                    co
                             CD                                                                     +

 _m    T m               >          3                            xco
0)                        w                              60 +
    0o I     -        Q                  co     cow( W(h
   >5>          >5            >?
       0  ~     c       ~             _              0
                                                                        -'l
                               I~
 -- P>5)0               0_100> o000                                     m/
   0- ,0                     0- --o 0-               O >)                   0
        G)          ~    >0)           00   c - >0    -
 >     >-o--              --0O            000>               0-H
        G)~                 ~              o
                                          00)C)
     G)0>               -HOG) -H -HO                             0
       >
       00G)    >
                        G)                  00)0'                G
                      0  (-)C-)        j)   --
                                            G   --G)     (-)     0            Q
        _ ___ _   )                            ,C        --
                 -Ho>~Oo-Ioo)                                           m
 > G >0 G0--i>0                                      0>o     o   -H>
                                  O                              -   r-~-
                 ~C~O-H0_        -H0WQ
cn     n        -400Hm 0P-Amm(nU                            nm   11
  4    W-M           U    M-      (iM             D          M   0
                              000--1                 005Z        0
                                      000
   0C            cOO40-o              00->>

                                                     - 33
          RESULTS
          Frequencies of individual polymorphisms are as follows:
Table 1. Polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies in the COPD patients and
resistant smokers.
Cyclo-oxygenase 2 -765 G/C
Frequency                           Allele*                         Genotype
                               C                 G            CC         CG         GG
Controls n=94 (%)          27(14%)           161 (86%)      3 (3%)   21(22%)     70 (75%)
COPD n=202 (%)             59 (15%)          345 (85%)      6 (3%)   47 (23%)    149(74%)
Resistant n=172 (%)       852 (25%)          259 (75%)     141 (8%)  57 (33%)    101 (59%)
Beta2-adrenoreceptor Arg 16 Gly
Frequency                           Allele*                         Genotype
                               A                 G            AA         AG         GG
Controls n=182 (%)        152 (42%)          212 (58%)    26(14%)    100 (55%)   56 (31%)
COPD n=236 (%)            164 (34%)          308 (66%)    34 (14%)   96 (41%)   1061 (45%)
Resistant n=190 (%)       135 (36%)          245 (64%)    34 (18%)   67 (35%)   894 (47%)
Interleukin 18 105 A/C
Frequency                           Allele*                         Genotype
                               C                 A            CC         AC         AA
Controls n=184 (%)        118(32%)           250(68%)     22(12%)     74 (40%)   88 (48%)
COPD n=240 (%)            122 (25%)         3776 (75%)     21(9%)     80(33%)  1395. (58%)
Resistant n=196 (%)       113 (29%)          277(71%)      16 (8%)   81(41%)     99(50%)
Interleukin 18 -133 C/G
Frequency                           Allele*                         Genotype
                               G                 C            GG         GC         CC
Controls n=187 (%)        120(32%)           254(68%)     23 (12%)    74 (40%)   90 (48%)
COPD n=238                123 (26%)         3539 (74%)     21(9%)     81 (34%)  136 (57%)
Resistant n=195 (%)       113 (29%)          277 (71%)     16 (8%)   81 (42%)    98 (50%)
Plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 -675 4G/5G
Frequency                           Allele*                         Genotype

                                                    -34
                               5G              4G           5G5G       5G4G        4G4G
Controls n=186 (%)         158 (42%)        214(58%)      31 (17%)   96(52%)     59 (32%)
COPD n=237 (%)            21912 (46%)       255 (54%)   541"' (23%)  111 (47%)   72 (30%)
Resistant n=194 (%)        152(39%)         236(61%)      31 (16%)   90(46%)   73"    (38%)
Nitric oxide synthase 3 Asp 298 Glu (T/G)
Frequency                           Allele*                         Genotype
                                T               G            TT          TG         GG
Controls n=183 (%)         108 (30%)        258 (70%)      13 (7%)    82 (45%)   88 (48%)
COPD n=238 (%)             159 (42%)        317(58%)      25(10%)    109 (47%)  104(43%)
Resistant n=194 (%)        136(35%)         252 (65%)    28"'(15%)    80(41%)    86 (44%)
Vitamin D Binding Protein Lys 420 Thr (A/C)
Frequency                           Allele*                         Genotype
                                A               C            AA          AC         CC
Controls n=189 (%)         113 (30%)        265 (70%)      17(9%)    79(42%)     93 (49%)
COPD n=250 (%)             147 (29%)        353 (71%)     24 (10%)   99(40%)    127(50%)
Resistant n=195 (%)       140" (36%)        250 (64%)    2514 (13%) 901 (46%)    80 (41%)
Vitamin D Binding Protein Glu 416 Asp (T/G)
Frequency                           Allele*                         Genotype
                                T               G            TT          TG         GG
Controls n=188 (%)         162(43%)         214(57%)      35(19%)    92(49%)     61 (32%)
COPD n=240 (%)             230(48%)         250 (52%)     57(24%)    116(48%)    67(28%)
Resistant n=197 (%)       193 17(49%)       201 (51%)    43 16(22%) 107 1(54%)   47(24%)
Glutathione S Transferase P1 Ile 105 Val (A/G)
Frequency                           Allele*                         Genotype
                                A               G            AA          AG         GG
Controls n=185 (%)         232 (63%)        138 (37%)     70 (38%)   92 (50%)    23 (12%)
COPD n=238 (%)             310(65%)         166(35%)      96(40%)    118 (50%)   24 (10%)
Resistant n=194 (%)       2691 (69%)        119(31%)     9111(47%)    87(45%)     16(8%)
Interferon-gamma 874 A/T
Frequency                           Allele*                         Genotype

                                                            - 35
                                     A                 T                  AA               AT                 TT
Controls n=186 (%)              183 (49%)          189(51%)            37(20%)         109 (58%)         40 (22%)
COPD n=235 (%)                  244 (52%)          226(48%)          642 (27%)         116 (49%)          55 (24%)
Resistant n=193 (%)             208 (54%)          178 (46%)           51(27%)         106 (55%)          36 (18%)
Interleukin-13 Arg 130 Gin (G/A)
Frequency                                  Allele*                                   Genotype
                                     A                 G                  AA               AG                 GG
Controls n=184 (%)               67 (18%)          301 (82%)            3 (2%)         61(33%)           120 (65%)
COPD n=237 (%)                   86 (18%)          388 (82%)            8 (3%)          70 (30%)         159 (67%)
Resistant n=194 (%)              74(19%)           314(81%)            91 (5%)         56(28%)           129 (67%)
Interleukin-13 -1055 C/T
Frequency                                  Allele*                                   Genotype
                                     T                 C                  TT               TC                 CC
Controls n=182 (%)               65 (18%)          299 (82%)            5 (3%)         55 (30%)          122 (67%)
COPD n=234 (%)                   94 (20%)          374 (80%)           822 (4%)        78 (33%)          148 (63%)
Resistant n=192 (%)              72 (19%)          312(81%)             2(1%)          68(35%)           122 (64%)
al-antitrypsin S
Frequency                                  Allele*                                   Genotype
                                     M                 S                 MM                MS                 SS
COPD n=202 (%)                  391 (97%)           13 (3%)           189 (94%)          13 (6%)            0 (0%)
Resistant n=189 (%)             350 (93%)           28 (7%)           162 (85%)       2623 (14%)           123 (1%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)Genotype
   1.  Genotype. CC/CG vs GG for resistant vs COPD, Odds ratio (OR) =1.98, 95% confidence limits 1.3-3.1,,/Y (Yates
       corrected)= 8.82, p=0.003,         CC/CG = protective for COPD
                                                                                                       2
  2.   Allele. C vs G for resistant vs COPD, Odds ratio (OR) =1.92, 95% confidence limits 1. 3-2.8,       (Yates
       corrected)= 11.56, p<O.0OI,                  C = protective for COPD
  3.   Genotype. GG vs AG/AA for COPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =1.83, 95% confidence limits 1.2-2.8, Z2 (Yates
       corrected)= 8.1, p=0.004,          GG = susceptible to COPD (depending on the presence of other snps)
  4.   Genotype. GG vs AG/AA for resistant vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =1.98, 95% confidence limits 1.3-3.1, Z2
                                        2
       (Yates corrected )=9.43, p=0.00              GG = resistance (depending on the presence of other snps)

                                                        - 36
5.  Genotype. AA vs AC/CC for COPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =1.50, 95% confidence limits 1.0-2.3, X2 (Yates
    uncorrected)= 4.26, p=0.04,       AA = susceptible to COPD
6.  Allele. A vs C for COPD vs control, Odds ratio (OR) =1.46, 95% confidence limits 1.1-2.0,    X2 (Yates  corrected)=
    5.76, p=0.02
7.  Genotype. AA vs AC/CC for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.35, 95% confidence limits 0.9-2.0,         X2  (Yates
    uncorrected)=2.39, p=0.12 (trend),                    AA = susceptible to COPD
8.  Genotype. CC vs CG/GG for COPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =1.44. 95% confidence limits 1.0-2.2. (2 (Yates
    corrected)= 3.4, p=0. 6           CC = susceptible to COPD
9.  Allele. C vs G for COPD vs control, Odds ratio (OR) =1.36, 95% confidence limits 1.0-1.9, y2 (Yates corrected)=
    53.7, p=0.05,          C = susceptible to COPD
10. Genotype. 5G5G vs rest for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.55, 95% confidence limits 0.9-2.6, )2 (Yates
    uncorrected)= 3.12, p=0.08,       5G5G = susceptible to COPD
11. Genotype. 5G5G vs rest for COPD vs control, Odds ratio (OR) =1.48, 95% confidence limits 0.9-2.5, 72 (Yates
    uncorrected)= 2.43, p=0.1 2 ,              5G5G = susceptible to COPD
12. Allele. 5G vs 4G for COPD vs resistant. Odds ratio (OR) =1.33, 95% confidence limits 1.0-1.8,     X2 (Yates
    corrected)=4.02, p=0.05,                   5G = susceptible to COPD
13. Genotype. TT vs TG/GG for resistant vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =2.2, 95% confidence limits 1.0-4.7,     X2  (Yates
    corrected)= 4.49, p=0.03,         TT genotype = protective for COPD
14. Genotype. AA/AC vs CC for resistant vs COPD, Odds ratio (OR) =1.39, 95% confidence limits 0.9-2.1,        X2  (Yates
    uncorrected)= 2.59. p=O.10,       AA/AC genotype = protective for COPD
15. Allele. A vs C for resistant vs COPD, Odds ratio (OR) =1.34, 95% confidence limits 1.0-1.8, y2 (Yates
    corrected)=3.94, p=0.05,                   A allele = protective for COPD
16. Genotype. TT/TG vs GG for resistant vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =1.53, 95% confidence limits 1.0-2.5, 72
    (Yates uncorrected)= 3.52. p=0.06,         TT/TG genotype = protective for COPD
17. Allele. T vs G for resistant vs control, Odds ratio (OR) =1.27. 95% confidence limits 1.0-1.7, )2 (Yates
    corrected)=2.69, p=0.1,                    T allele = protective for COPD
18. Genotype. AA vs AG/GG for resistant vs controls. Odds ratio (OR) =1.45, 95% confidence limits 0.9-2.2, X2
    (Yates uncorrected)= 3.19, p=0.07,         AA genotype = protective for COPD
                                                                                                     2
19. Allele. A vs G for resistant vs control, Odds ratio (OR) =1.34, 95% confidence limits 1.0-1.8, ;   (Yates
    uncorrected)= 3.71, p=0.05,                A allele = protective for COPD

                                                         - 37
  20. Genotype. AA vs AT/TT for COPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =1.51, 95% confidence limits 0.9-2.5,   X2  (Yates
        uncorrected)= 3.07, p=00.8 ,    AA genotype = susceptible to COPD
  21. Genotype. AA vs AG/GG for resistant vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =2.94. 95% confidence limits 0.7-14.0, X2
        (Yates uncorrected)= 2.78, p=0.09,       AA genotype = protective for COPD
  22. Genotype. TT vs TC/CC for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =6.03, 95% confidence limits 1.1-42, /2 (Yates
        corrected)= 4.9, p=0.03,        TT= susceptible to COPD
  23. Genotype. MS/SS vs MM for Resistant vs COPD, Odds ratio (OR) =2.42, 95% confidence limits 1.2-5.1, (2
        (Yates corrected)= 5.7, p=0.01,          S= protective for COPD
Tumour Necrosis Factor a +489 G/A polymorphism allele and genotype frequency in
the COPD patients and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                               AIIeIe*                      Genotype
                                     A           G              AA             AG           GG
COPD n=242 (%)                  54 (11%)    430 (89%)         5 (2%)        44(18%)      193 (80%)
Resistant n=187 (%)              27 (7%)    347 (93%)         1(1%)         25 (13%)     161 (86%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.    Genotype. AA/AG vs GG for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.57, 95% confidence limits 0.9
    2.7,  72  (Yates corrected)= 2.52, p=O. 11,
          AA/AG =susceptible (GG=protective)
    2.    Allele. A vs G for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.61, 95% confidence limits 1. 0-2.7,       x2
    (Yates corrected)= 3.38, p=0.07,
          A =susceptible
Tumour Necrosis Factor a -308 G/A polymorphism allele and genotype frequency in
the COPD patients and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                             AIIeIe*                        Genotype
                                   A             G              AA             AG           GG
COPD n=242 (%)                 90 (19%)     394 (8 1%)        6 (2%)        78 (32%)     158 (65%)
Resistant n=190 (%)            58 (15%)     322 (85%)         3 (2%)        52 (27%)     135 (71%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     1.   Genotype. GG vs AG/AA for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.77, 95% confidence limits 0.5
           1.2,  n(Yates uncorrected)= 1.62, p=0.20,

                                                     - 38
         GG=protective (AA/AG =susceptible) trend
    2.   Allele. A vs G for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.3, 95% confidence limits 0.9-1.9,  2
         (Yates uncorrected)= 1.7, p=0.20,
         A =susceptible trend
SMAD3 C89Y polymorphism allele and genotype frequency in the COPD patients
and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                          AIIeIe*                       Genotype
                                A            G              AA           AG            GG
COPD n=250 (%)               2 (1%)      498 (99%)        0 (0%)      2 (1%)       248 (99%)
Resistant n=196 (%)          6 (2%)      386 (98%)        0 (0%)       6 (3%)      190 (97%)
  number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.   Genotype. AA/AG vs GG for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.26, 95% confidence limits
    0.04-1.4,12 (Yates uncorrected)= 3.19, p=0.0 7 ,
         AA/AG =protective (GG susceptible)
Intracellular Adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1) A/G E469K (rs5498) polymorphism allele
and genotype frequency in COPD patients and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                          AIIeIe*                       Genotype
                                A            G              AA           AG            GG
COPD n=242 (%)             259 (54%)     225 (46%)       73 (30%)    113(47%)       56 (23%)
Resistant n=182 (%)        217 (60%)     147 (40%)       64 (35%)    89 (49%)       29 (16%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.   Genotype. GG vs AG/GG for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.60, 95% confidence limits 0.9
    2.7, X2 (Yates corrected)= 3.37, p=0.07,
         GG =susceptibility
    2.   Allele. G vs A for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.3, 95% confidence limits 1.0-1.7, Z2
    (Yates corrected)= 2.90, p=0.09
Caspase (NOD2) Gly88lArg polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies in the
COPD patients and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                          AIIeIe*                     Genotype
                                 G           C             GG            GC            CC

                                                      - 39
COPD n=247                   486 (98%)      8 (2%)      239 (97%)    8 (3%)         0 (0%)
Resistant n=195 (%)         388 (99.5%)    2 0.5%)      193 (99%)    2 (1%)         0 (0%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.   Genotype. CC/CG vs GG for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =3.2, 95% confidence limits 0.6
    22, y,' (Yates uncorrected)= 2.41, p=0. 11 (1-tailed),
         GC/CC=susceptibility (trend)
Mannose binding lectin 2(MBL2) +161 G/A polymorphism allele and genotype
frequencies in the COPD patients and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                           AIIeIe*                       Genotype
                                 A             G             AA        AG             GG
COPD n=218 (%)              110(25%)      326(75%)         6(3%)    98(45%)       114(52%)
Resistant n=183 (%)          66 (18%)     300 (82%)        6 (3%)   54 (30%)      123 (67%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.   Genotype. GG vs rest for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.53, 95% confidence limits 0.4
    0.80,  v) (Yates uncorrected)= 8.55, p=0.003,
         GG =protective
Chymase 1 (CMA1) -1903 G/A promoter polymorphism allele and genotype
frequencies in the COPD patients and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                           AIIeIe*                       Genotype
                                 A             G             AA        AG             GG
COPD n=239 (%)              259 (54%)     219 (46%)       67 (28%) 125 (52%)       47 (20%)
Resistant n=181 (%)         209 (58%)     153 (42%)       63 (35%)  83 (46%)       35 (19%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.   Genotype. AA vs AG/GG for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.73, 95% confidence limits 0.5
    1.1 1  2
             (Yates corrected)= 1.91, p=O.1 7,
         AA genotype =protective trend
N-Acetyltransferase 2 Arg 197 GIn G/A polymorphism allele and genotype
frequencies in COPD and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                           AIIeIe*                       Genotype
                                 A             G             AA        AG             GG

                                                     - 40
COPD n=247 (%)             136 (28%)      358 (72%)       14 (6%) 108 (44%)     125 (50%)
Resistant n=196 (%)        125 (32%)      267(68%)      21 (11%)   83 (42%)      92 (47%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.   Genotype. AA vs AG/GG for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.50, 95% confidence limits 0.2
    1.0, Z2 (Yates uncorrected)= 3 .82 , p=0.05,
         AA genotype = protective
Interleukin 1B (IL-1b) -511 A/G polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies in
COPD and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                          AIIeIe*                       Genotype
                               A               G            AA        AG            GG
COPD n=248 (%)             160 (32%)      336 (68%)      31 (13%)  98 (40%)     119 (48%)
Resistant n=195 (%)        142 (36%)      248 (64%)      27 (14%)  88 (45%)      80 (41%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.   Genotype. GG vs AA/AG for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.3, 95% confidence limits 0.9
    2.0, X2 (Yates corrected)= 1.86, p=O.17,
         GG genotype = susceptible trend
Microsomal epoxide hydrolase (MEH) Tyr 113 His T/C (exon 3) polymorphism allele
and genotype frequency in COPD and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                          AIIeIe*                       Genotype
                               C               T            CC        CT            TT
COPD n=249 (%)             137 (28%)      361 (72%)       18 (7%) 101 (41%)     130 (52%)
Resistant n=194 (%)        130 (34%)      258 (66%)      19 (10%)  92 (47%)      83 (43%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.   Genotype. TT vs CT/CC for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.5. 95% confidence limits 1.0
    2.2, 2 (Yates corrected)= 3.51, p=0.06,
         TT genotype = susceptible
Microsomal epoxide hydrolase (MEH) His 139 Arg A/G (exon 4) polymorphism allele
and genotype frequency in COPD and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                          AIIeIe*                       Genotype
                               A               G            AA        AG            GG
COPD n=238 (%)             372 (78%)       104 (22%)    148 (62%)  76 (32%)       14 (6%)

                                                    - 41
Resistant n=179 (%)        277 (77%)      81 (23%)     114(64%)    49(27%)        16 (9%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.    Genotype. GG vs AA/AG for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.64, 95% confidence limits 0.3
    1.4, X2 (Yates uncorrected)= 1.43. p=0.23,
          GG genotype = protective (trend)
Lipo-oxygenase -366 G/A polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies in the COPD
patients and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                           AIIeIe*                     Genotype
                                A             G            AA         AG             GG
COPD n=247 (%)               21 (4%)     473 (96%)      1(0.5%)    19 (7.5%)     227 (92%)
Resistant n=192 (%)          25 (7%)     359 (93%)       0 (0%)    25 (13%)      167 (87%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.    Genotype. AA/AG vs GG for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.60, 95% confidence limits
    0.3-1.1, y2 (Yates corrected)= 2.34, p=O.12,
          AA/AG genotype = protective (GG susceptible) trend
Heat Shock Protein 70 (HSP 70) HOM T2437C polymorphism allele and genotype
frequencies in the COPD patients and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                           Allele*                     Genotype
                                C             T            CC         CT             TT
COPD n=199 (%)              127 (32%)    271 (68%)       5 (3%)    117 (59%)      77 (39%)
Resistant n=166 (%)         78 (23%)     254 (77%)       4 (2%)    70 (42%)       92 (56%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.    Genotype. CC/CT vs TT for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =2.0, 95% confidence limits 1.3
    3.1.,  2 (Yates uncorrected)= 9.52, p=0.002,
          CC/CT genotype = susceptible (TT=protective)
Chloride Channel Calcium-activated 1 (CLCA1) +13924 T/A polymorphism allele and
genotype frequencies in the COPD patients and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                           Allele*                     Genotype
                                A             T            AA         AT             TT
COPD n=224 (%)             282 (63%)      166 (37%)     84 (38%)   114 (51%)      26 (12%)
Resistant n=158 (%)         178 (56%)     138 (44%)     42 (27%)   94(59%)       22 (14%)

                                                     - 42
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     1.    Genotype. AA vs AT./TT for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.7, 95% confidence limits 1.0
     2.    y2 (Yates corrected)= 4.51, p=0.03,
        AA=susceptible
Monocyte differentiation antigen CD-14 -159 promoter polymorphism allele and
genotype frequencies in the COPD patients and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                             AIIele*                    Genotype
                                  C             T           CC            CT             TT
COPD n=240 (%)               268 (56%)     212 (44%)     77 (32%)      114 (48%)      49 (20%)
Resistant n=180 (%)          182 (51%)     178 (49%)     46 (25%)      90 (50%)      44 (24%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
1.         Genotype.CC vs CT/TT for COPD vs Resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.4, 95% confidence limits 0.9
2.2, y 2 (Yates uncorrected)= 2.12, p=O.15,
        CC = susceptible (trend)
Elafin +49 C/T polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies in the COPD patients,
resistant smokers and controls.
Frequency
                             AIIele*                  Genotype
                                  C           T            CC             CT             TT
COPD n=144 (%)               247 (86%)    41 (14%)     105 (73%)       37 (26%)        2 (1%)
Resistant n=75 (%)           121 (81%)    29 (19%)      49 (65%)       23 (31%)        3 (4%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     1.    Genotype. CT/TT vs CC for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) = 0.70, 95% confidence limits=
     0.4-1.3 , X2 (Yates uncorrected)= 1.36, p=0.24,
           CT/TT genotype = protective (trend only)
     2.    Allele: T vs C for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) = 0.69, 95% confidence limits= 0.4-1.2 , Z2
     (Yates uncorrected)= 1.91, p=O.17.
           T genotype = protective (trend only)
Beta2-adrenoreceptor Gln 27 Glu polymorphism allele and genotype frequency in the COPD patients,
resistant smokers and controls.
Frequency
                             AIIeIe*                    Genotype

                                                     -43
                               C              G            CC        CG             GG
Controls n=185 (%)        204 (55%)      168 (45%)      57 (31%)  89 (48%)       39 (21%)
COPD n=238 (%)            268 (56%)     208 (44%)       67 (28%)  134 (56%)      37 (16%)
Resistant n=195 (%)       220 (56%)      170 (44%)      64 (33%)  92 (47%)       39 (20%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
    1.   Genotype. GG vs CG/CC for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) = 0.74, 95% confidence limits =
    0.4-1.2, 2 (Yates uncorrected)= 1.47 , p=0.2 3 ,
         GG =protective (trend)
    2.   Genotype. GG vs CG/CC for COPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) = 0.69, 95% confidence limits  =
    0.4-1.2, i2 (Yates uncorrected)= 2.16 , p=O. 14,
         GG =protective (trend)
Maxtrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP1) -1607 1G/2G polymorphism allele and genotype
frequencies in COPD patients, resistant smokers and controls.
Frequency
                          AIIeIe*                      Genotype
                              1G             2G           IG1G      1G2G          2G2G
Controls n=174 (%)        214 (61%)      134 (39%)      68 (39%)  78 (45%)       28 (16%)
COPD n=217 (%)             182 (42%)    252 (58%)       47 (22%)  88 (41%)       82 (38%)
Resistant n=187 (%)       186 (50%)      188 (50%)      46 (25%)  94 (50%)       47 (25%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
1.   Genotype. IGIG vs rest for COPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =0.43, 95%
     confidence limits 0.3-0.7, X2 (Yates uncorrected)= 13.3, p=0.000 3
                  1G 1G genotype =protective
2.   Allele. IG vs 2G for COPD vs controls, Odds ration (OR) =0.45, 95% confidence
     limits 0.3-0.6, y.2 (Yates corrected)= 28.8, p<0.0001,
                  1G = protective
3.   Genotype. 1G1G/1G2G vs rest for COPD vs resistant smokers, Odds ratio (OR) =0.55,
     95% confidence limits 0.4-0.9, x2 (Yates uncorrected)= 6.83, p=0.009
                  1GIG/162G genotypes =protective
4.   Allele. IG vs 2G for COPD vs resistant smokers, Odds ratio (OR) =0.73, 95%
     confidence limits 0.6-1.0, x 2 (Yates corrected)= 4.61, p=0.03,
                  1G = protective

                                               - 44
5.    Genotype. 2G2G vs 1G1G/1G2G for COPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =3.17, 95%
      confidence limits 1.9-5.3, x2 (Yates uncorrected)= 21.4, p<0.0001
                   2G2G genotype =susceptible
6.    Allele. 2G vs IG for COPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =2.2, 95% confidence limits
       1.6-3.0, x 2 (Yates corrected)= 28.8, p<0.00001,
                   2G = susceptible
7.    Genotype. 2G2G vs 1G1G/1G2G for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.81, 95%
      confidence limits 1.2-2.9, X2 (Yates uncorrected)= 6.83, p=0.009
                   2G2G genotype =susceptible
8.    Allele. 2G vs IG for COPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.4, 95% confidence limits
       1.0-1.8, X2 (Yates corrected)= 4.61, p=0.0.03,
                   2G = susceptible
          Table 2 below provides a summary of the protective and susceptibility
polymorphisms determined for COPD.
Table 2. Summary of protective and susceptibility polymorphisms for COPD
Gene                                           Polymorphism        Role
Cyclo-oxygenase 2 (COX2)                       COX2 -765 G/C       CC/CG protective
f2-adrenoreceptor (ADBR)                       ADBR Argl6Gly        GG susceptible
Interleukin -18 (IL18)                         IL18 -133 C/G        CC susceptible
Interleukin -18 (IL18)                         IL18 105 A/C        AA susceptible
Plasminogen activator inhibitor I (PAI-1)      PAI -675 4G/5G       5G5G susceptible
Nitric Oxide synthase 3 (NOS3)                 NOS3 298 Asp/Glu    TT protective
Vitamin D Binding Protein (VDBP)               VDBP Lys 420 Thr    AA/AC protective
Vitamin D Binding Protein (VDBP)               VDBP Glu 416 Asp    TT/TG protective
Glutathione S Transferase (GSTP-1)             GSTPl Ile105Val     AA protective
Interferon y (IFN-y)                           IFN-y 874 A/T       AA susceptible
Interleukin-13 (IL13)                          IL13 Arg 130 Gln    AA protective
Interleukin-13 (1L13)                          1113 -1055C/T        IT susceptible
a1-antitrypsin (al-AT)                         al-AT    S allele   MS protective
Tumour Necrosis Factor   at TNFa               TNFa +489 G/A       AA/AG susceptible
                                                                    GG protective

                                                  - 45
Tumour Necrosis Factor o TNFa                      TNFa -308 G/A             GG protective
                                                                             AA/AG susceptible
SMAD3                                              SMAD3 C89Y AG             AA/AG protective
                                                                             GG susceptible
Intracellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1)         ICAMI E469K A/G            GG susceptible
Caspase (NOD2)                                    NOD2 Gly 881Arg G/C        GC/CC susceptible
Mannose binding lectin 2 (MBL2)                    MBL2 161 G/A              GG protective
Chymase 1 (CMA1)                                   CMA1 -1903 G/A            AA protective
N- Acetyl transferase 2 (NAT2)                     NAT2 Arg 197 Gln          AA protective
                                                   G/A
Interleukin 1B (ILI1B)                             (ILIB) -511 A/G           GG susceptible
Microsomal epoxide hydrolase (MEH)                MEH Tyr 113 His T/C        TT susceptible
Microsomal epoxide hydrolase (MEH)                 MEH His 139 Arg G/A       GG protective
5 Lipo-oxygenase (ALOX5)                          ALOX5 -366 G/A             AA/AG protective
                                                                             GG susceptible
Heat Shock Protein 70 (HSP 70)                    HSP 70 HOM T2437C          CC/CT susceptible
                                                                             TT protective
Chloride Channel Calcium-activated 1 (CLCAl)       CLCA1 +13924 T/A          AA susceptible
Monocyte differentiation antigen CD-14             CD-14 -159 C/T            CC susceptible
Elafin                                             Elafin Exon 1 +49 C/T     CT/TT protective
B2-adrenergic receptor (ADBR)                     ADBR Gln 27 Glu C/G        GG protective
Matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP1)                  MMP1 -1607 1G/2G          1G1G/1G2G
                                                                             protective
          The combined frequencies of the presence or absence of the selected protective
genotypes COX2 (-765) CC/CG, P2 adreno-receptor AA, Interleukin-13 AA, Nitic Oxide
Synthase 3 TT, and Vitamin D Binding Protein AA observed in the COPD subjects and in
resistant smokers is presented below in Table 3.
Table 3. Combined frequencies of the presence or absence of selected protective
genotypes in COPD subjects and in resistant smokers.
                                     Number of protective polymorphisms
Cohorts                              0                1                >2               Total
COPD                                 136 (54%)        100 (40%)        16 (7%)          252
Resistant smokers                    79 (40%)         83 (42%)         34 (17%)         196

                                                    - 46
% of smokers with COPD               136/215 (63%)      100/183            16/50
                                                       (55%)               (32%)
Comparison                                 Odd's ratio        95% CI           X2           P value
0 vs 1 vs 2+, Resist vs COPD               -                  -                 16.43       0.0003
2+ vs 0-1, Resist vs COPD                  3.1                 1.6-6.1          12.36       0.0004
1+ vs 0, Resist vs COPD                     1.74               1.2-2.6         7.71         0.006
         The combined frequencies of the presence or absence of the selected susceptibility
genotypes Interleukin-18 105 AA, PAI-I -675 5G5G, Interleukin-13 -1055 TT, and
Interferon-y -874 AA observed in the COPD subjects and in resistant smokers is presented
below in Table 4.
Table 4. Combined frequencies of the presence or absence of selected susceptibility
genotypes in the COPD subjects and in resistant smokers.
                              Number of protective polymorphisms
Cohorts                       0                  1                  >2                Total
COPD                          66 (26%)           113 (45%)          73 (29%)          252
Resistant smokers             69 (35%)           92 (47%)           35 (18%)          196
% of smokers with COPD        66/135             113/205            73/108
                              (49%)              (55%)              (68%)
Comparison                                 Odd's ratio        95% CI           X2           P value
0 vs 1 vs 2+,  COPD vs Resist              -                  -                8.72         0.01
2+ vs 0-1, COPD vs Resist                   1.9                1.2-3.0         6.84         0.009
1+ vs 0, COPD vs Resist                     1.5                1.0-3.5         3.84         0.05
         The combined frequencies of the presence or absence of the protective genotypes
COX2 (-765) CC/CG, Interleukin-13 AA, Nitic Oxide Synthase 3 TT, Vitamin D Binding
Protein AA/AC, GSTPl AA, and al-antitypsin MS/SS, observed in the COPD subjects and
in resistant smokers is presented below in Table 5 and in Figure 1.

                                              - 47
Table 5. Combined frequencies of the presence or absence of selected protective
genotypes in the COPD subjects and in resistant smokers.
                                 Number of protective polymorphisms
Cohorts                          0                 1              >2         Total
COPD                             51 (19%)          64 (24%)       150 (57%)  265
Resistant smokers                16 (8%)           56 (27%)       133 (65%)  205
% of smokers with COPD           51/76              64/120        150/283
                                 (76%)             (53%)          (53%)
                                                          9
Comparison                             Odd's ratio          5% Cl     x2       P value
0 vs I vs 2+, Resist vs COPD           -                  -           12.14    0.0005
1+ vs 0, Resist vs COPD                2.82               1.5-5.3     11.46    0.0004
         Protective polymorphisms were assigned a score of +1 while susceptibility
polymorphisms were assigned a score of -1. For each subject, a net score was then
calculated according to the presence of susceptibility and protective genotypes.          This
produced a linear spread of values. When assessed as a range between -3 to +3, a linear
relationship as depicted in Figure 2 was observed. This analysis indicates that for subjects
with a net score of -2 or less, there was a 70% or greater risk of having COPD. In contrast,
for subjects with a net score of 2+ or greater the risk was approximately 40% (see Figure
2).
         In an analysis in which the value of a given polymorphism was weighted based on
the Odd's ratio for that polymorphism (generated by comparing its frequency between
resistant and COPD subjects), a linear relationship was again observed. This analysis
allowed for the distinction of smokers at high or low risk of having COPD.
                EXAMPLE 2. CASE ASSOCIATION STUDY - OCOPD
METHODS
Subject recruitment
          Subjects of European decent who had been exposed to chronic smoking (minimum
15 pack years) and aero-pollutants in the work place (noxious dusts or fumes) were
identified from respiratory clinics. After spirometric testing those with occupational chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (OCOPD) with forced expiratory volume in one second

                                            - 48
(FEV1) as a percentage of predicted <70% and a FEV1/FVC ratio (Forced expiratory
volume in one second/Forced vital capacity) of < 79% (measured using American Thoracic
Society criteria) were recruited. One hundred and thirty-nine subjects were recruited, of
these 70% were male, the mean FEVI/FVC (  Standard Deviation) was 54% (SD 15),
mean FEVI as a percentage of predicted was 46 (SD 19). Mean age, cigarettes per day, and
pack year history was 62 yrs (SD 9), 25 cigarettes/day (SD 16) and 53 pack years (SD 3 1),
respectively. One hundred and twelve European subjects who had smoked a minimum of
fifteen pack years and similarly been exposed in the work place to potentially noxious dusts
or fumes were also studied. This control group was recruited through community studies of
lung function and were 81% male; the mean FEVI/FVC ( SD) was 81% (SD 8), and mean
FEV 1 as a percentage of predicted was 96 (SD 10). Mean age, cigarettes per day and pack
year history was 58 yrs (SD 11), 26 cigarettes/day (SD 14) and 45 pack years (SD 28),
respectively. Using a PCR based method [1], all subjects were genotyped for the al
antitrypsin mutations (M, S and Z alleles) and those with the ZZ allele were excluded. The
OCOPD and resistant smoker cohorts were matched for subjects with the MZ genotype
(6% in each cohort). They were also matched for age started smoking (mean 16 yr) and
aged stopped smoking (mid fifties). 190 European blood donors (smoking and occupational
exposure status unknown) were recruited consecutively through local blood donor services.
Sixty-three percent were men and their mean age was 50 years. On regression analysis, the
age difference and pack years difference observed between OCOPD sufferers and resistant
smokers was found not to determine FEV or OCOPD.
Summary of characteristics for the OCOPD and exposed resistant smoker cohorts.
Parameter              OCOPD                 Exposed resistant     Differences
Mean (SD)              (N=139)               smokers (N=112)
% male                 70%                    81%                  P<0.05
Age (yrs)              62 (9)                58 (11)               ns
Pack years            53 (31)                45 (28)               P<0.05
Cigarettes/day        25 (16)                26 (14)               ns
FEV] (L)               1.3(0.7)              3.0(0.7)              P<0.05
FEVJ % predict        46(19)                  96%(10)              P<0.05
FEV]/FVC              54(15)                  8] (8)               P<0.05
Means and ISD

                                              - 49
Cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2) -765 G/C promoter polymorphism and al-antitrypsin
genotyping
         Genomic DNA was extracted from whole blood samples [2]. The COX2 -765
polymorphism was determined by minor modifications of a previously published method
[3]. The PCR reaction was carried out in a total volume of 25ul and contained 20 ng
genomic DNA, 500pmol forward and reverse primers, 0.2mM dNTPs, 10 mM Tris-HCL
(pH 8.4), 150 mM KCl, 1.0 mM MgC12 and 1 unit of Taq polymerase (Life Technologies).
Cycling times were incubations for 3 min at 95'C followed by 33 cycles of 50s at 94'C, 60s
at 66'C and 60s at 72'C. A final elongation of 10 min at 72'C then followed. 4ul of PCR
products were visualised by ultraviolet trans-illumination of a 6% agarose gel stained with
ethidium bromide. An aliquot of 3ul of amplification product was digested for 1 hr with 4
units of Acil (Roche Diagnostics, New Zealand) at 37"C. Digested products were separated
on a 2.5% agarose gel run for 2.0 hrs at 80 mV with TBE buffer and visualised using
ultraviolet transillumination after ethidiurn bromide staining against a 123bp ladder. Using
a PCR based method discussed above [3], all smoking subjects were genotyped for the Ul
antitrypsin M, S and Z alleles.
Genotyping of the superoxide dismutase 3 Arg 312 Gin polymorphism
         Genomic DNA was extracted using standard phenol and chloroform methods.
Cohorts of patients and controls were configured in to 96-well PCR format containing
strategic negative controls. The assay primers, PCR conditions and RFLP assays details
have been previously described [4, incorporated in its entirety herein by reference].
Genotyping was done using minor modifications of the above protocol optimised for
laboratory conditions. The PCR reactions were amplified in MJ Research thermocyclers in
a total volume of 25tl and contained 80ng genomic DNA, 10 pmol forward and reverse
primers, 0.1mM dNTPs, 10 mM Tris-HCL (pH 8.4), 150 mM KCl, 1.0 mM MgCl2 and 0.5
unit of Taq polymerase (Qiagen). Aliquots of amplification product were digested for 4 hrs
with 5U of the relevant restriction enzymes (Roche Diagnostics, New Zealand) at
designated temperatures and conditions.          Digested products were separated on 8%
polyacrylamide gels (49:1, Sigma).           The products were visualised by ultraviolet
transillumination following ethidium bromide staining and migration compared against a

                                             - 50
1Kb plus ladder standard (Invitrogen). Genotypes were recorded in data spreadsheets and
statistical analysis performed.
Genotyping of the Microsomal Epoxide Hydrolase Exon 3 TCpolymorphism
         Genomic DNA was extracted using standard phenol and chloroform methods.
Cohorts of patients and controls were configured in to 96-well PCR format containing
strategic negative controls. The assay primers, PCR conditions and RFLP assays details
have been previously described [5, incorporated in its entirety herein by reference].
Genotyping was done using minor modifications of the above protocol optimised for
laboratory conditions. The PCR reactions were amplified in MJ Research thermocyclers in
a total volume of 25ptl and contained 80ng genomic DNA, 100 ng forward and reverse
primers, 0.2mM dNTPs, 10 mM Tris-HCL (pH 8.4), 150 mM KCl, 1.5 mM MgCl2 and 1.0
unit of Taq polymerase (Qiagen). Cycling conditions consisted of 94'C 60s, 56'C 20s,
72'C 20s for 38 cycles with an extended last extension of 3min. Aliquots of amplification
product were digested for 4 hrs with 5U of the relevant restriction enzymes Eco RV (Roche
Diagnostics, New Zealand) at designated temperature conditions. Digested products were
separated on 8% polyacrylamide gels (49:1, Sigma).        The products were visualised by
ultraviolet transillumination following ethidium bromide staining and migration compared
against a 1Kb plus ladder standard (Invitrogen).        Genotypes were recorded in data
spreadsheets and statistical analysis performed.
Genotyping of the 3' 1237 G/A (T/t) polymorphism of the al-antitrypsin gene
         Genomic DNA was extracted using standard phenol and chloroform methods.
Cohorts of patients and controls were configured in to 96-well PCR format containing
strategic negative controls. The assay primers, PCR conditions and RFLP assays details
have been previously described [Sandford AJ et al.,[6]]. Genotyping was done using minor
modifications of the above protocol optimised for laboratory conditions The PCR reactions
were amplified in MJ Research thermocyclers in a total volume of 2 5 pl and contained 80ng
genomic DNA, 100 ng forward and reverse primers, 0.2mM dNTPs, 10 mM Tris-HCL (pH
8.4), 150 mM KCl, 1.5 mM MgCl2 and 1.0 unit of Taq polymerase (Qiagen). Forward and
reverse prime sequences were 5'-CTACCAGGAATGGCCTTGTCC-3' [SEQ.ID.NO.136]

                                             -51
and    5'-CTCTCAGGTCTGGTGTCATCC-3'                 [SEQ.ID.NO.137].    Cycling   conditions
consisted of 94C 60 s, 56C 20s, 72C 20 s for 38 cycles with an extended last extension of 3
min. Aliquots of amplification product were digested for 4 hrs with 2 Units of the
restriction enzymes Taq 1 (Roche Diagnostics, New Zealand) at designated temperature
conditions.    Digested products were separated on 3% agarose.          The products were
visualised by ultraviolet transillumination following ethidium bromide staining and
migration compared against a 1Kb plus ladder standard (Invitrogen).        Genotypes were
recorded in data spreadsheets and statistical analysis performed.
Genotyping of the Asp 299 Gly polymorphism of the toll-like receptor 4 gene
         Genomic DNA was extracted using standard phenol and chloroform methods.
Cohorts of patients and controls were configured in to 96-well PCR format containing
strategic negative controls. The assay primers, PCR conditions and RFLP assays details
have been previously described [6, incorporated in its entirety herein by reference].
Genotyping was done using minor modifications of the above protocol optimised for
laboratory conditions The PCR reactions were amplified in MJ Research thermocyclers in a
total volume of 25pl and contained 80ng genomic DNA, 100 ng forward and reverse
primers, 0.2mM dNTPs, 10 mM Tris-HCL (pH 8.4), 150 mM KCI, 1.5 mM MgCl2 and 1.0
unit of Taq polymerase (Qiagen). Forward and reverse prime sequences were 5'
GATTAGCATACTTAGACTACTACCTCCATG-3'                           [SEQ.ID.NO.138]     and      5'
GATCAACTTCTGAAAAAGCATTCCCAC-3'                       [SEQ.ID.NO.139].  Cycling conditions
consisted of 94'C 30s, 55'C 30s, 72'C 30s for 30 cycles with an extended last extension of
3min. Aliquots of amplification product were digested for 4 hrs with 2U of the restriction
enzyme Nco I (Roche Diagnostics, New Zealand) at designated temperature conditions.
Digested products were separated on 3% agarose gel. The products were visualised by
ultraviolet transillumination following ethidium bromide staining and migration compared
against a 1Kb plus ladder standard (Invitrogen).          Genotypes were recorded in data
spreadsheets and statistical analysis performed.

                                           - 52
Genotyping of the -1607 1G2G polymorphism of the matrix metalloproteinase 1 gene
         Genomic DNA was extracted using standard phenol and chloroform methods.
Cohorts of patients and controls were configured in to 96-well PCR format containing
strategic negative controls. The assay primers, PCR conditions and RFLP assays details
have been previously described [Dunleavey L, et al]. Genotyping was done using minor
modifications of the above protocol optimised for laboratory conditions The PCR reactions
were amplified in MJ Research thermocyclers in a total volume of 25pl and contained 80ng
genomic DNA, 100 ng forward and reverse primers, 200mM dNTPs, 20 mM Tris-HCL (pH
8.4), 50 mM KCl, 1.5 mM MgCl2 and 1.0 unit of Taq polymerase (Qiagen). Forward and
reverse prime sequences were3' TCGTGAGAATGTCTTCCCATT-3'                   [SEQ.ID.NO.140]
and    5'-TCTTGGATTGATTTGAGATAAGTGAAATC-3'                     [SEQ.ID.NO.141].    Cycling
conditions consisted of 94C 60 s, 55C 30s, 72C 30 s for 35 cycles with an extended last
extension of 3 min. Aliquots of amplification product were digested for 4 hrs with 6 Units
of the restriction enzymes XmnI (Roche Diagnostics, New Zealand) at designated
temperature conditions. Digested products were separated on 6% polyacrylamide gel. The
products were visualised by ultraviolet transillumination following ethidium bromide
staining and migration compared against a lKb plus ladder standard (Invitrogen).
Genotypes were recorded in data spreadsheets and statistical analysis performed.
Other polymorphism genotyping
         Genomic DNA was extracted from whole blood samples [4]. Purified genomic
DNA was aliquoted (10 ng/ul concentration) into 96 well plates and genotyped on a
Sequenom TM system (Sequenomtm Autoflex Mass Spectrometer and Samsung 24 pin
nanodispenser) using the sequences, amplification conditions and methods described
below.
        The following conditions were used for the PCR multiplex reaction: final
concentrations were for 10xBuffer 15 mM MgCl2 1.25x, 25mM MgCl2 1.625mM, dNTP
mix 25 mM 500uM, primers 4 uM 100nM, Taq polymerase (Quiagen hot start)
0.15u/reaction, Genomic DNA 10 ng/ul. Cycling times were 95'C for 15min, (5'C for 15s,
56'C 30s, 72'C 30s for 45 cycles with a prolonged extension time of 3min to finish. We
used shrimp alkaline phosphotase (SAP) treatment (2ul to Sul PCR reaction) incubated at

                                         - 53
35'C for 30min and extension reaction (add 2ul to 7ul after SAP treatment) with the
following volumes per reaction of water 0.76ul, hME lOx termination buffer 0.2ul, hME
primer (1OuM) lul, MassEXTEND enzyme 0.04ul.

                        cj-      -1                   -C-                            (A
   00                                     00M
                                                   I                   It
             >                                                >
  >                    0                         0               0        0    0
                            >                 r
       O
      CC  ~    J~    ~            )       K)           K)     K)        -
                       >              >                >0
  >~00m           >~~0         m        m                                          0
                                        >            ~              H       H~
   >                             z           0c~z z
  >~O             ~O 0              ~O                    ~0                ~O
-H       >-       H     -                     ~        -          H
c7     >            > 5;>       7-  0         77           0c                    >
                             0>     >
  0>
                       >
                  >                                                0
         c>
          H                                   0lH
         >
  H      C                          H
  ->     ~        H         ~       H
      >
  0       0j       0        0l        l
                                              0>
                >                                                     ~        7

                   C>
    -00
    cc                                          0- cc     0~
                   ---
                   oc  C7 C
                              0
                                 000
                                              0                                               00
    0>-    >           >      >      >~~)   ~
    >   >K      0   ~   0   >   ~     '   ~
        0>     U.       0  0
             2                                                                            oil
             >n                                         00
             >                                                                            Irl
>~0~C
                4>                                 '    0      ' 0   0  '     0 '
                                     >j    Hi            K0-.-'0                    4     2.U
                                                      -  ~         ~      0 t    V. tQ>00
 H7
                       ~0            H    C/
                        o     H      0  r                              ~u       UHu
                        V. UN        V
uj                         w         =

       00~            00D
                              00      U                                     00
                          0(-                      n
                    >  00
                                               0           ~                0
                (.)                         >                >  r'l >     H
      >H                                                            >
                          >                                         Hi
C)     0       >       C0          0    0         C    0        0
                          c    C)    .      c~   .A n) p.-      C
           -   K)
             00 00C
                            ~-1K)(   4'
                                         -j      C'
                                                           J
                                                           j >A
                                                                A
                                                                C'
   *C  c.      C-j             C-      -         -rK)  GX.      00     00

                                                    - 57
      RESULTS
          Frequencies of individual polymorphisms are as follows:
          Table 6. Polymorphism allele and genotype frequency in the OCOPD
patients, exposed resistant smokers and controls.
Cyclo-oxygenase 2 -765 G/C
Frequency                           Allele*                       Genotype
                               C                  G          CC        CG         GG
Controls n=95 (%)          27 (14%)          161 (86%)    3 (3%)   21(22%)     70 (75%)
OCOPD n=82 (%)             22 (13%)         1424 (87%)    2 (2%)    18 (22%)  621 (76%)
Resistant n=87 (%)        422(24%)           132(76%)     61 (7%)  301 (34%)  51(59%)
Glutathione S Transferase P1 Ile 105 Val (A/G)
Frequency                           Allele*                       Genotype
                               A                  G         AA         AG         GG
Controls n=186 (%)        234(63%)           138(37%)    71(38%)   92(50%)    23 (12%)
OCOPD n=123 (%)           159 (65%)           87 (36%)   52 (42%)  55 (45%)   165 (13%)
Resistant n=98 (%)        136 (69%)          60 (31%)    44 (45%)  48 (49%)     6(6%)
Interleukin 18 105 C/A
Frequency                           Allele*                       Genotype
                               C                  A         CC         AC         AA
Controls n=185 (%)        119(32%)          251 (68%)    22(12%)   75(40%)    88(48%)
OCOPD n=122 (%)            62 (25%)          182 (75%)   12 (10%)  38 (31%)  726. (59%)
Resistant n=98 (%)         60(31%)           136(69%)     6(6%)    48(49%)    44(45%)
Interleukin 18 -133 G/C
Frequency                           Allele*                       Genotype
                               G                  C         GG         GC         CC
Controls n=1 88 (%)       121 (32%)         255(68%)     23 (12%)  75(40%)    90(48%)
OCOPD n=122                62(25%)           182 (75%)   12 (10%)  38 (31%)  728 (59%)
Resistant n=97 (%)         60(31%)           134(69%)     6(6%)    48(50%)    43 (44%)
Interleukin 8 -251 A/T
Frequency                           Allele*                       Genotype

                                                   - 58
                               A                 T          AA          AT         TT
Controls n=188 (%)        175 (47%)         201 (53%)    39(21%)    97(52%)    52(28%)
OCOPD n=116               101(44%)          131 (56%)    21 (18%)   59 (51%)   36 (31%)
Resistant n=93 (%)        9411 (50%)         92 (49%)   2611 (28%)  42 (45%)   25 (27%)
Vitamin D Binding Protein Lys 420 Thr (A/C)
Frequency                           Allele*                        Genotype
                               A                 C          AA          AC         CC
Controls n=189 (%)        113 (30%)         265(70%)      17(9%)    79(42%)    93 (49%)
OCOPD n=122 (%)            62 (125%)        182(75%)      5 (4%)    52 (43%)  65 14(53%)
Resistant n=99 (%)        7313 (37%)        125 (63%)   1212 (12%)  49 (50%)   38 (38%)
Vitamin D Binding Protein Glu 416 Asp (T/G)
Frequency                           Allele*                        Genotype
                               T                 G          TT          TG         GG
Controls n=189 (%)        163 (43%)         215 (57%)    35 (19%)   93(49%)    61(32%)
OCOPD n=122 (%)           109 (45%)         135 (55%)    25 (21%)   59 (48%)  3817(31%)
Resistant n=99 (%)       10316 (52%)         95 (48%)   2315 (23%) 5715 (58%)  19 (19%)
Microsomal epxoide hydrolase R/r Exon 3 T/C
Frequency                           Allele*                        Genotype
                               r                 R           rr         Rr         RR
Controls n=184 (%)        228(62%)          140(38%)     77(42%)    74(40%)    33(18%)
OCOPD n=98 (%)            144 (74%)          52 (26%)    55 (56%)   34 (35%)     9(9%)
Resistant n=102 (%)       135 (66%)          69 (34%)    52 (51%)   31(30%)   1911(19%)
Super oxide dismutase 3 Arg 312 Gln
Frequency                           Allele*                        Genotype
                               A                 G          AA          AG         GG
Controls n=190 (%)        371 (98%)           9 (2%)    183 (96%)     5 (3%)     2(1%)
OCOPD n=100 (%)          19920 (99%)          1(1%)      99 (99%)     1 (1%)     0 (0%)
Resistant n=102 (%)       193 (95%)          112" (5%)   92 (90%)    911(9%)    l", (1%)
al-antitrypsin S
Frequency                           Allele*                        Genotype
                               M                 S          MM          MS         SS

                                                    - 59
OCOPD n=88 (%)             171 (97%)           5 (3%)     83 (94%)     5 (6%)   0 (0%)
Resistant n=94 (%)         175 (93%)         1322  (7%)   81(86%)   1321 (14%)  0(0%)
Toll-like receptor 4 Asp 299 Gly A/G
Frequency                            Allele*                        Genotype
                                A                 G          AA         AG        GG
OCOPD n=60 (%)             117(98%)            1 (2%)     58 (98%)     1 (2%)   0(0%)
Resistant n=34 (%)          65(96%)            3 (4%)     31 (91%)    33 (9%)   0(0%)
Beta2-adrenoreceptor Gin 27 Glu
Frequency                            Allele*                        Genotype
                                C                 G          CC          CG       GG
Controls n=186 (%)         204(55%)          168(45%)     57(31%)    90(48%)   39(21%)
OCOPD n=122 (%)            129 (53%)         115 (47%)    32(26%)    65 (53%)  25(21%)
Resistant n=99 (%)         117 (59%)          81(41%)    3824 (38%)  41 (41%)  20(20%)
Interleukin 11 (IL-11) -518 G/A
Frequency                            Allele*                        Genotype
                                A                 G          AA         AG        GG
OCOPD n=1 19 (%)           110 (46%)         128 (54%)    22 (19%)   66 (55%)  31(26%)
Resistant n=98 (%)         103 (53%)         93 (47%)    267 (27%)   51 (52%)  21(21%)
Interleukin-13 -1055 C/T
Frequency                            Allele*                        Genotype
                                T                 C          TT          TC       CC
Controls n=182 (%)          65(18%)          299 (82%)     5 (3%)    55(30%)   122(67%)
OCOPD n=121 (%)             53 (22%)         189 (78%)    52 (4%)    43 (36%)  73 (60%)
Resistant n=97 (%)          31(16%)          163 (84%)     1(1%)     29(30%)   67(69%)
Plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 -675 4G/5G
Frequency                            Allele*                        Genotype
                               5G                4G         5G5G       5G4G      4G4G
Controls n=186 (%)         158(42%)          214 (58%)    31(17%)    96(52%)   59(32%)
OCOPD n=122 (%)           1 1 (47%)          129(53%)    2927 (24%)  57(47%)   36 (30%)
Resistant n=98 (%)          76 (39%)         120 (61%)    14 (14%)   48 (49%)  36 (37%)

                                                      - 60
Nitric oxide synthase 3 Asp 298 Glu (T/G)
Frequency                              Allcle*                                  Genotype
                                   T                G                TT              TG         GG
Controls n=183 (%)            108(30%)         258(70%)           13 (7%)        82(45%)    88(48%)
OCOPD n=120 (%)                71 (30%)        169(70%)           10(8%)         51(43%)    59(49%)
Resistant n=99 (%)            71(36%)          127(64%)        1529,30 (15%)     41(41%)    43 (43%)
al-antitrypsin 3' 1237 G/A (T/t)
Frequency                              AlIele*                                  Genotype
                                   T                t                TT              Tt          tt
Controls n=178 (%)           345(97%)           11 (3%)         167 (94%)         11(6%)      0(0%)
COPD n=61 (%)                109 (89%)        13  (11%)32        50(82%)         9 (15%)3   2  (3%)31
Resistant n=35 (%)            67 (96%)           3 (4%)          32 (91%)         3 (9%)      0 (0%)
Matrix metalloproteinase 1 -1607 IG/2G
Frequency                              AIleIe*                                  Genotype
                                  IG               2G              IG1G            1G2G       2G2G
Controls n=174 (%)           214 (61%)         134 (39%1)        68 (39%)        78 (45%)  28 (16%)
COPD n=93 (%)                 90 (48%)        96 (52%)34         24 (26%)        42 (45%) 27   (29%)3
Resistant n=94 (%)            99 (53%)         89 (47%)          25 (27%)        49 (52%)  20(21%)
          * number of chromosomes (2n)
  1.    Genotype. CC/CG vs GG for resistant vs OCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) =2.2, 95% confidence
       limits=1.1-4.8. y 2 (Yates corrected)= 4.76, P=0.03,         CC/CG =protective
  2.   Allele. C vs G for resistant vs OCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) =2.1, 95% confidence limits 1.1- 3.8,  x2
        (Yates corrected)= 5.65, p=0.02.                  C =protective
  3.    Genotype. GG vs CG/CC for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.5. 95% confidence
       limits=0.2-0.9,  z2 (Yates corrected)=  4.76, P=0.03.        GG =susceptible
  4.   Allele. G vs C for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.5, 95% confidence limits 0.3- 0.9,  x2
        (Yates corrected)= 5.65, p=0.02.                  G =susceptible
  5.    Genotype. GG vs AG/AA for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) = 2.3, 95% confidence limits=
        0.8-6.9, X2 (Yates uncorrected)= 2.88, p=0.0 9 . GG genotype = susceptible
  6.    Genotype. AA vs AC/CC for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.8, 95% confidence
       limits= 1.0-3.1,  2 (Yates corrected)=3.8, p=0.05.           AA =susceptibility
  7.    Genotype. AA vs AC/CC for OCOPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =1.6, 95% confidence limits
        1.0-2.6, x2 (Yates uncorrected)=3.86, p=0.05. AA = susceptibility

                                                  - 61
8.  Genotype. CC vs CG/GG for OCOPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =1.6, 95% confidence
    limits=1.0-2.6, X2 (Yates uncorrected)=3.68, p=0.05.        CC =susceptibility
9.  Genotype. CC vs CG/GG for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.8, 95% confidence limits
    1.0-3.2.    2 (Yates corrected)= 4.10. p=0.04.    CC =susceptibility
10. Genotype. AA vs AT/TT for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.8, 95% confidence limits=
    0.9-3.6, X2 (Yates uncorrected)=2.88, p=0.0 9 . AA = protective
11. Allele. A vs T for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.3, 95% confidence limits= 0.9-2.0,  x2
    (Yates uncorrected)= 2.3, p=O.15.                 A = protective
12. Genotype. AA vs AC/CC for resistant vs OCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) =3.2. 95% confidence limits      =
    1.0-11.0, x2 (Yates corrected)= 3.89, p=0.05.     AA genotype = protective
13. Allele. A vs C for resistant vs OCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) =1.7, 95% confidence limits 1.1-2.6, X2
    (Yates corrected)=6.24, p=0.01.                   A allele = protective
14. Genotype. CC vs AC/AA for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.8, 95% confidence limits      =
                2
    1.0-3.3, X (Yates corrected)= 4.29, p=0.04.       CC genotype = susceptibility
15. Genotype. TT/TG vs GG for resistant vs OCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) =1.9, 95% confidence limits=
    1.0-38, y2 (Yates uncorrected)= 4.08, p=0.04. TT/TG genotype = protective
16. Allele. T vs G for resistant vs OCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) =1.3. 95% confidence limits 0.9-2.0. X2
    (Yates uncorrected)=2.36, p=O.12.                 A allele = protective
17. Genotype. GG vs TT/TG for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.5, 95% confidence limits=
    0.3-1.0,  12 (Yates  uncorrected)= 4.1, p=0.04.   GG genotype    = susceptible
18. Genotype. RR vs Rr/rr for resistant vs OCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) = 2.3, 95% confidence limits=
                 2
    0.9-5.8  ,7    (Yates uncorrected)= 3.7, p=0.05, RR genotype = protective
19. Genotype. AG/GG vs AA for resistant vs OCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) = 10.8, 95% confidence
    limits= 1.4-229,    x2 (Yates corrected)= 5.99 p=0.01.     AG/GG genotype = protective, AA
    susceptible
20. Allele. G vs A for resistant vs OCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) =11.3, 95% confidence limits 1.5-237, X2
    (Yates corrected)=6.77, p=0.001.                  G allele = protective, A susceptible
21. Genotype. MS vs MM for Resistant vs OCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) =2.7, 95% confidence limits
    0.8-9.0,  72 (Yates uncorrected)= 3.4, p=0.07. MS=protective
22. Allele: S vs M allele for resistant vs OCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) =2.5, 95% confidence limits 0.8
    8.4, )2 (Yates uncorrected)= 3.24, p=0.07.
23. Genotype AG vs AA in resistant vs OCOPD, Odd's Ratio (OR)= 5.61, 95% confidence limits 0.5
    146, y2 (Yates uncorrected)= 2.66, p=0.10.        AG = protective
24. Genotype. CC vs CG/GG for resistant vs OOCOPD, Odds ratio (OR) = 1.75, 95% confidence
    limits = 1.0-3.2, 72 (Yates uncorrected)= 3.73, p=0.05.     CC =protective
25. Genotype: AA vs AG/GG for resistant vs OCOPD, Odd's Ratio (OR)=1.6, 95% confidence limits
    0.8-32, y 2 (Yates uncorrected)= 2.02, p=O.16. AA = protective
26. Genotype. TT vs TC/CC for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =6.03, 95% confidence limits
    1.1-42, X2 (Yates corrected)= 4.9, p=0.03.        TT=susceptible

                                                     - 62
  27. Genotype. 5G5G vs rest for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.9, 95% confidence limits
        0.9-4.0. z2 (Yates  uncorrected)= 3.11, p=0.08.            5G5G = susceptible
  28.    Allele. 5G vs 4G for OCOPD vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.4, 95% confidence limits 0.9-2.1,
       x 2
           (Yates corrected)=3.1, p=0.08.       5G = susceptible
  29. Genotype. TT vs TG/GG for resistant vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =2.3, 95% confidence limits
        1.0-5.5, X2 (Yates corrected)= 3.80, p=0.05.     TT genotype =protective
   30. Genotype. TT vs TG/GG for resistant vs OCOPD. Odds ratio (OR) =1.9, 95% confidence limits
        0.8-5.0, Z2 (Yates uncorrected)= 2.49. p=0.11. TT genotype =protective
   31. Genotype: Tt/tt vs TT for COPD vs controls, Odd's Ratio (OR) =3.34, 95% confidence limits 1.3
        8.9, x2 (Yates corrected) = 6.28, p=0.01.        Tt/tt = susceptible to OCOPD
   32. Allele:   t vs T for COPD vs controls, Odd's Ratio (OR)=2.5, 95% confidence limits 1.0-6.3, X2
        (Yates corrected)= 4.1, p=0.04.                  t = susceptible to OCOPD
   33. Genotype. 2G2G vs 1G1G/1G2G for COPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =2.1, 95% confidence
       limits 1.1-4.1,  72 (Yates corrected)= 5.44, p=.02. 2G2G genotype =susceptible for OCOPD
   34. Allele. 2G vs IG for COPD vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =1.7, 95% confidence limits 1.2-2.5,  x2
        (Yates corrected)= 7.97, p=0.005.                2G = susceptible for OCOPD
           Table 7 below provides a summary of the protective and susceptibility
polymorphisms determined for OCOPD.
Table 7. Summary of protective and susceptibility polymorphisms for OCOPD
Gene                                                 Polymorphism                  Role
Cyclo-oxygenase (Cox) 2                              Cox 2 -765 G/C                CC/CG protective
                                                                                   GG susceptible
 32-adrenoreceptor (ADRB2)                           ADRB2 Gln 27Glu               CC protective
Interleukin -18 (IL-18)                              IL-18 -133 C/G                CC susceptible
Interleukin -18 (IL-18)                              IL-18 105 A/C                 AA susceptible
Plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAl-1)            PAI-I -675 4G/5G              5G5G susceptible
Nitric Oxide synthase 3 (NOS3)                       NOS3 298 Asp/Glu              TT protective
Vitamin D Binding Protein (VDBR)                     VDBR Lys 420 Thr              AA protective
                                                                                   CC susceptible
Vitamin D Binding Protein (VDBR)                     VDBP Glu 416 Asp              TT/TG protective
                                                                                   GG susceptible
Glutathione S Transferase (GSTP1)                      GSTP1 Ilel05Val             GG susceptible
Superoxide dismutase 3 (SOD3)                         SOD3 Arg 312 Gln             AG/GG protective

                                              - 63
                                                                              AA susceptible
al-antitrypsin (alAT)                         alAT 3' 1237 G/A (T/'t)         Tt/tt susceptible
al-antitrypsin (alAT)                         alAT     S allele               MS protective
Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)                   TLR4 Asp 299 Gly A/G            AG/GG protective
Interleukin-8 (IL-8)                          IL-8 -251 A/T                   AA protective
Interleukin 11 (IL-11)                        IL-11 -518 G/A                  AA protective
Microsomal epoxide hydrolase (MEH)            MEH Exon 3 T/C (r/R)            RR protective
Interleukin 13 (IL-13)                        IL-13 -1055 C/T                 TT susceptible
Matrix Metalloproteinase 1 (MMP1)             MMP1 -1607 IG/2G                2G2G susceptible
          The combined frequencies of the presence or absence of the selected protective
genotypes COX2 -765 CC/CG, NOS3 298 TT,                     lAT MS/SS, SOD3 AG/GG, MEH
Exon 3 RR, and VDBP 420 AA observed in the OCOPD subjects and in resistant
smokers is presented below in Table 8.
Table 8. Combined frequencies of the presence or absence of protective genotypes
in OCOPD subjects and in resistant smokers.
                                Number of protective polymorphisms
Cohorts                         0                  1                  >2                  Total
OCOPD                           34 (27%)           51 (41%)           39 (32%)            124
Resistant smokers               20 (19%)           31 (30%)           53 (51%)             104
% of smokers with OCOPD         34/54 (63%)        51/82 (62%)        39/92 (42%)
Comparison                               Odd's ratio       95% CI          X2             P value
0 vs 1 vs 2+, Resist vs OCOPD            -                 -               16.2           0.003
2+ vs 0-1, Resist vs OCOPD               2.3                1.3-4.0        8.15           0.004
0 vs 2+, OCOPD vs Resist                 2.3                1.1-4.9        4.97           0.03
          The combined frequencies of the presence                  or absence of the selected
susceptibility genotypes MMP1 -1607 2G2G, GSTP1 105 GG, PAI-I -675 5G5G, IL-13
-1055 TT, and VDBP 416 GG, observed in the OCOPD subjects and in resistant
smokers is presented below in Table 9.

                                               - 64
Table 9. Combined frequencies of the presence or absence of selected susceptibility
genotypes in OCOPD subjects and in resistant smokers.
                                 Number of protective polymorphisms
Cohorts                          0                  1                 >2              Total
OCOPD                            45 (36%)           55 (44%)          24 (20%)        124
Resistant smokers                55 (54%)           37 (37%)          9 (9%)          101
% of smokers with OCOPD          45/100 (45%)       55/92 (60%)       24/33 (73%)
Comparison                                Odd's ratio      95% CI         X2       P value
0 vs 1 vs 2+, OCOPD vs Resist             -                -              9.1      0.01
2+ vs 0-1, OCOPD vs Resist                2.5               1.0-6.0       4.05     0.04
0+ vs 1-2+, Resist vs OCOPD               2.1               1.2-3.7       6.72     0.01
         Protective polymorphisms were assigned a score of +1 while susceptibility
polymorphisms were assigned a score of -1. For each subject, a net score was then
calculated according to the presence of susceptibility and protective genotypes.            This
produced a linear spread of values, as shown in Table 10. When assessed as a range
between -2 to +3, a linear relationship as depicted in Figure 3 was observed.               This
analysis indicates that for subjects with a net score of -1 or less, there was an
approximately 70% or greater risk of having OCOPD. In contrast, for subjects with a
net score of 2+ or greater, the risk was approximately 25% (see Figure 3).
Table 10. Combined presence or absence of protective and susceptibility
polymorphisms
                          Score combining protective and susceptibility polymorphisms
                       -2          -1             0               1            2        3
OCOPD n=124            8           28             33              39           11       5
Resistant n=101        2            11            23              27           23       15
% OCOPD                80%         72%            59%             59%          32%      25%

                                          - 65
       EXAMPLE 3. CASE ASSOCIATION STUDY - LUNG CANCER
METHODS
Subject recruitment
        Subjects of European decent who had smoked a minimum of fifteen pack years
and diagnosed with lung cancer were recruited. Subjects met the following criteria:
diagnosed with lung cancer based on radiological and histological grounds, including
primary lung cancers with histological types of small cell lung cancer, squamous cell
lung cancer, adenocarinoma of the lung, non-small cell cancer (where histological
markers can not distinguish the subtype) and broncho-alveolar carcinoma. Subjects
could be of any age and at any stage of treatment after the diagnosis had been
confirmed. One hundred and nine subjects were recruited, of these 58% were male, the
mean FEVI/FVC ( 95% confidence limits) was 51% (49-53), mean FEVI as a
percentage of predicted was 43 (41-45). Mean age, cigarettes per day and pack year
history was 65 yrs (64-66), 24 cigarettes/day (22-25) and 50 pack years (41-55)
respectively. Two hundred and seventeen European subjects who had smoked a
minimum of twenty pack years and who had never suffered breathlessness and had not
been diagnosed with an obstructive lung disease or lung cancer in the past were also
studied. This control group was recruited through clubs for the elderly and consisted of
63% male, the mean FEV1/FVC ( 95%CI) was 82% (81-83), mean FEVI as a
percentage of predicted was 96 (95-97). Mean age, cigarettes per day and pack year
history was 59 yrs (57-61), 24 cigarettes/day (22-26) and 42 pack years (39-45)
respectively. Using a PCR based method [1], all subjects were genotyped for the al
antitrypsin mutations (S and Z alleles) and those with the ZZ allele were excluded. 190
European blood donors (smoking status unknown) were recruited consecutively through
local blood donor services. Sixty-three percent were men and their mean age was 50
years. On regression analysis, the age difference and pack years difference observed
between lung cancer sufferers and resistant smokers was found not to determine FEV or
lung cancer.
        This study shows that polymorphisms found in greater frequency in lung cancer
patients compared to resistant smokers may reflect an increased susceptibility to the
development of lung cancer. Similarly, polymorphisms found in greater frequency in
resistant smokers compared to lung cancer may reflect a protective role.

                                            - 66
         Summary of characteristics.
Parameter               Lung Cancer            Resistant smokers      Differences
Median (IQR)             N=109                 N=200
% male                  52%                    64%                    ns
Age (yrs)               68(11)                 60(12)                 P<0.05
Packyears               40(31)                 43(25)                 P<0.05
Cigarettes/day          18(11)                 24(12)                 ns
FEV] (L)                1.7(0.6)               2.8(0.7)               P<0.05
FE Vi % predict         67(22)                 96%(10)                P<0.05
FEV/FVC                 59(14)                 82(8)                  P<0.05
         Means and 95% confidence limits
Glutathione S-transferase nullpolymorphisms genotyping
         Genomic DNA was extracted using standard phenol and chloroform methods.
Cohorts of patients and controls were configured in to 96-well PCR format containing
strategic negative controls. The assay primers, PCR conditions and RFLP assays details
have been previously described [7, incorporated herein in its entirety by reference].
Genotyping was done using minor modifications of the above protocol optimised for
our own laboratory conditions The PCR reactions were amplified in MJ Research
thermocyclers in a total volume of 25ptl and contained 80ng genomic DNA, 100 ng
forward and reverse primers, 200mM dNTPs, 20 mM Tris-HCL (pH 8.4), 50 mM KCl,
2.5 mM MgCl2 and 1.0 unit of Taq polymerase (Qiagen). Forward, internal (GSTM4)
and     reverse   prime     sequences    were     5'    CTGCCCTACTTGATTGATGG-3'
[SEQ.ID.NO.192],     5'   ATCTTCTCCTCTTCTGTCTC -3' [SEQ.ID.NO.193] and 5'
TTCTGGATTGTAGCAGATCA -3' [SEQ.ID.NO.194]. Cycling conditions consisted
of 94C 60 s, 59C 30s, 72C 30 s for 35 cycles with an extended last extension of 3 min.
Digested products were separated on 3% agarose gel.         The products were visualised by
ultraviolet transillumination    following ethidium bromide staining and migration
compared against a 1Kb plus ladder standard (Invitrogen). Genotypes were recorded in
data spreadsheets and statistical analysis performed.

                                          - 67
Cyclooxygenase 2 polymorphisms genotyping
         Genomic DNA was extracted from whole blood samples (Maniatis,T., Fritsch,
E. F. and Sambrook, J., Molecular Cloning Manual. 1989). The Cyclo-oxygenase 2 -765
polymorphism was determined by minor modifications of a previously published
method (Papafili A, et al., 2002, incorporated in its entirety herein by reference)). The
PCR reaction was carried out in a total volume of 25ul and contained 20 ng genomic
DNA, 500pmol forward and reverse primers, 0.2mM dNTPs, 10 mM Tris-HCL (pH
8.4), 150 mM KCl, 1.0 mM MgCl2 and I unit of polymerase (Life Technologies).
Cycling times were incubations for 3 min at 95'C followed by 33 cycles of 50s at 94'C,
60s at 66'C and 60s at 72'C. A final elongation of 10 min at 72'C then followed. 4ul of
PCR products were visualised by ultraviolet trans-illumination of a 3% agarose gel
stained with ethidium bromide. An aliquot of 3ul of amplification product was digested
for 1 hr with 4 units of Acil (Roche Diagnostics, New Zealand) at 37 C.          Digested
products were separated on a 2.5% agarose gel run for 2.0 hours at 80 mV with TBE
buffer. The products were visualised against a 123bp ladder using ultraviolet
transillumination after ethidium bromide staining.
Matrix metalloproteinase 1 -1607 1G/2G polymorphisms genotyping
         Genomic DNA was extracted using standard phenol and chloroform methods.
Cohorts of patients and controls were configured in to 96-well PCR format containing
strategic negative controls. The assay primers, PCR conditions and RFLP assays details
have been previously described [Dunleavey L, et al]. Genotyping was done using minor
modifications of the above protocol optimised for our own laboratory conditions The
PCR reactions were amplified in MJ Research thermocyclers in a total volume of 25I
and contained 80ng genomic DNA, 100 ng forward and reverse primers, 200mM
dNTPs, 20 mM Tris-HCL (pH 8.4), 50 mM KCI, 1.5 mM MgCl2 and 1.0 unit of Taq
polymerase      (Qiagen).    Forward   and     reverse   prime    sequences     were    3'
TCGTGAGAATGTCTTCCCATT-3'                        [SEQ.ID.NO. 195]          and          5'
TCTTGGATTGATTTGAGATAAGTGAAATC-3'                          [SEQ.ID.NO. 196].       Cycling
conditions consisted of 94C 60 s, 55C 30s, 72C 30 s for 35 cycles with an extended last
extension of 3 min. Aliquots of amplification product were digested for 4 hrs with 6
Units of the restriction enzymes XmnI (Roche Diagnostics, New Zealand) at designated
temperature conditions. Digested products were separated on 6% polyacrylamide gel.
The products were visualised by ultraviolet transillumination following ethidium

                                         -68
bromide staining and migration compared against a 1Kb plus ladder standard
(Invitrogen).  Genotypes were recorded in data spreadsheets and statistical analysis
performed.
Polymorphism genotyping using the Sequenom Autoflex Mass Spectrometer
        Genomic DNA was extracted from whole blood samples [2]. Purified genomic
DNA was aliquoted (10 ng/ul concentration) into 96 well plates and genotyped on a
SequenomTM system (SequenomTM Autoflex Mass Spectrometer and Samsung 24 pin
nanodispenser) using the following sequences, amplification conditions and methods.
The following conditions were used for the PCR multiplex reaction: final concentrations
were for l0xBuffer 15 mM MgCl2 1.25x, 25mM MgCl2 1.625mM, dNTP mix 25 mM
500uM, primers 4 uM 1OOnM, Taq polymerase (Quiagen hot start) 0.15U/reaction,
Genomic DNA 10 ng/ul. Cycling times were 95'C for 15 min, (5'C for 15 s, 56'C 30s,
72'C 30s for 45 cycles with a prolonged extension time of 3min to finish. We used
shrimp alkaline phosphotase (SAP) treatment (2ul to 5ul per PCR reaction) incubated at
35'C for 30 min and extension reaction (add 2ul to 7ul after SAP treatment) with the
following volumes per reaction of: water, 0.76ul; hME lOx termination buffer, 0.2ul;
hME primer (1OuM), lul; MassEXTEND enzyme, 0.04ul.

        0           )o       )o       o           o         o          o        C)      o         o          )a       a                  m
        G)         G)        G)       C)         H          H         H        H
>       z          -n        F        C        C)           Z          0        K         C)      F-        F                   )        l
      o 0          >                 C         -<           >           G)      K         -<      11                 -1        <
                 I>        6n        z                               C          u       T        00       00)                           _
   >      o      1>      I        ~m z         N3           >        C/                 >-        I'       -
                                                                                                          C.
                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                               n      I
                                                                                                                                        5
        0)                 -         >          I         (a         CD       >                              ,
                  CD                   4                              wJ                      CD C)D
                           G)        C)                                                          G)(
                                          G)                         0)       cn         m       Ct~
                                                                              U)        w                                     0
                                                                     G)
                                   -C          >            >          >>>                   >       >>                 >0
*H
        )    H
               C)cn    H
                                  C)
                                  *
                                             C)
                                             *
                                            )m0mC)      *
                                                          )       *H
                                                                    )C         C)H         H
                                                                                            )    C)H     cn H          H         H         0
                                       0     0 ) 0C G)0               r,)G)
                                                             ) GG r,)G)             G)0     G    0 G      C)G)          G)0       G
                                                                                                                    ~E
 z 0     2:    )z     G)       G)z       G)         G)      zG)       z G)     z G)      z G)z       G)   z         z   G)     z G)
     G) N)            H        H0      0            H) G        )        G C) G )            HD QCD)           HD       >) (DG0G
     G)     H-        C)       H-        C)         H          H       DG      )         40    )     C)        G)         C'o              e -4D
                                               H) C)           C)        >          0
     H)     H         C)Ho~>                                                                                                      C
     C)     >         C)                 0) C                                       H        H       H         H        C
     >      C)                 G)         H 0)                                        ~       >      H         C          )       C
                               G)G G)                        G)                             C)
  -C)     3       C)       U >             -C) c           c         c        c -cC)         > Hc    >)   - >             HC/     > C/
     G)     G)         H        G)         G)         C)       G                    G)      G)                 C) )       H-      00
                 G)    ~ ~              ~           ~          C         C)-G     )-G )      C) )     C)        H       -    C)
9 > 9 > 9 > 9 > 9 > 9 > 9 > 9 > 9> 9> 9> 9> 9> 9>
  NG)       CIJ )      H)      C) )        C)         H)-G                 )c)G             G C)C) HD G) Cc))G
                       >E       H2 >)                 H      m C D 0             )  H                  H          H    C        O   >
                      H)       C)        H          C)         H                             H                          G))
        C)     >       )        H        C                      )        C )                 >                          0)        H
        C) C                   H         C)-        H                    >)                                    G        >
     C)     >         C)                 >                               0 HGH
                                                               C)        C)         H)                )                           G)
                    >                    0          0C)                                                        HGH
     C)     C)        C)H>
     0      >                            G) C)                 G)~C                                                   C
          H>                        >                          G>
            >)
            HG)                                                H              ~             C
        C    >        C)        )        C)          H>
     C)     C)
                                 0                          GH

>       C)       C)      >       >
        G) )     C)      C)      C)
             --         z        CO)
      C)   Co           Cl) &,o 0
                    S>          >
>        Hn
m G) mc) mc) mC)                mC)
  G)        G)      )        G)      G)
    C)>             Q )      G)      H)
            >>CC
  H)                C>      C
  G)        C)C)
  G)        >                      G) C )
  GO        0        )
                    >              G
  C)                        C          )
   HiC        )
  G)        >       H
  G)         HH
  >         H               >)
  )         Hn   C/          )     H
   H)                       C) G ) C)
  G)         G).C)        C).       )
9 > 9 > 9 > 9> 9>
  C)        )>       C)      C)      )
  C)        H)       CD)     C)      C)2
  G)        >        0       H       G)
  G)                0)    H 0)     C
  C)        C)       >       C)-     >
                  C)>C)
          G)                       C
           CG )           >        C)
             >       H      C)     0
                H>
  C)        H>              HC
          C))

                      w              ~0         n                       m                  7                -w   w    0
     (O4                  w                 W                                                                              I
       w                              00                         CD                N)     W        )0(
      oo                                                                                                                   co0
                                                        G)                                                                 G)
                               C)~~~~-C                            )C
                                                                  --.                   Cn     C)            0),
                                                                      0
           (D C j W          (    M        (             (
                                                  (W(0(01n(D   (
                                                        ~~~~~3~~N                                           C- 0 0 )      r~   -    )~J ~(   ) W' 0 CD
                                                                                                                                 z
       -      (0     w 0          C                 D       D    (Dm0D             co   (      CDJ (00)      0.    co      co
                     M0)               cn           N)                  m)     A-  cil(  0     M-cn                              0
                      w       ri          -j Il                         C)         IQ   )    c   o                         w     0    c
                                                                                                                                 z
                                                                                                                                  -n
       m~~ 4.!                                             0).                .    .r           n
                                                                                          0).mClCT    -       -     D
                                                                                                                                 z
                                                     VI 0)                                                         -- J    -4J 0) ) 0 )    )
           N)      0 0)0         - -I        -
                                                                                                                                 z
                                                                                                                                 c
                                                                                                                                 m
 0)         )    )     )0               0          0)0                          0)0        ***n CP                   m n mn m i0           nm
 0(0          CD      4-*   0)- -~ W.                0)     "N ) 00         )      M)      0   CD       M 0) -- 4 0) " Ia
(0        41   m)     w. 0        C.)        0)            0     C.)W    -~     W. M)      -                CD      M~ 00 0)
(0W      .      0)   M)   0)           )0         0 W.           4-      W    0    M       0        )D'       N      (00)          >
                                                                                                                                 (/3
                                                                                                                                 (/3

>         z          -n       F       0       0       z       0       K         a              F                0 >< a Cl
    H co            0       -        z      -0       H        )                       co       0                          -0
    -00)                                                                                     C) 0>
                           G)    ~C' -1                      0D
                                                             w                 CD     G
                   =CDw
                                                                                                                c/)                 0)
                                                                                                                                    -.
                                                                                 W
                            3         >      - 0         H       0       H    - - )G - Q           >      G
      0 m '~  Gm                    0m~       m      M >m           m        m       m      >m       m0          m       m
    H      Zz          )z        0C           Z      Z -jZ       GZ             .H0z0                          O               Ze-     ) ).
    H 0-           --4H0 C" 0
                                      0
                                                >      D     -j>       p       wcE               cn   -4  0      c    >
     O                 >          >   >                                   0)G)
                       >          OH             H       H       0        0        0~~>                              0G)
0                                                                                                         0         0)
              C)0                                       G0       0                 HGH
                                  HH
      0H               >
                       G          0>>
                  0     0                                                                                 H          0)
                                                HC        0>                                              0H)m>
                           m~~~
0             0        H                        H)                           HC00)
              C)                                         0-                                       0
                           .0        .0C>
z                                    z
0                                    0
                                                                                                                          0       m
>         0         0       G)      0       H         >      0)      >         >               >       H                       X)
.01       0)       A.       -A       w       w       (0      CPy      w~       CnC                     ( 01                     m~c
          w         0         0)     -1     cx     i         o C)         --       CD C        0)      co4      0C         n
          6.)      K)       6)       6      60       6       6C )                                           O  0    HmCi c
                                                                                 00   -j' )G e-0 0>    C/)
                                    m~~         ~                    >~
              C- C G 0                  >0       -- C C)z     0     z           >0                           ~        0
          p        Po  >H                   9>               9>  C,            PH 9p..9p                9
           H H>                      E5C)E
         )     C')       >       0      C)      0M
                                                                           0       0       G)                                000)))
                0 0 G) 0                 C) H     H0              0                                       Hc         o >)
                                  H      H-          Nj>     N         . > 0-- ) > 0N) H  G)- P.
                H
              0D        H4 (7
                       c)               .       Ho
                                                  ) 0 H>                         00                H )G o-G - (> 0
              0
      0      H                   C> >                      >                              C0 0 0 0 0 0                 >

                      0       0
     o Co ~C/                 0,r)
            3         >       >
wo     00                    CD
C0     --A            00      P
       -c-j                G
 on0       >~          0 0      0
 0                     0      0nPG
         o)         ) 0- G)     0
                                  0
                          0
                00
>               >             0
my     -Ij      a)    0)
w~      m)      -4    .-*
CD      w       -     NJ
0)     -        C)    C)      N
m 0mm>                     m m
   G)00            00           ->
 00           >        0       G)-0
   0) 0         0        0      0
                NoG) >       >0
   G0      0-
           > 0
           0 -G
    0>                0           G0

0            F          Z     W       >        z       mFlz            10    -Hz    0      -0           F       F
       3'    c-         >        >     F                       -'      -~    -       C/                            l5
                                 3~    -       M(a       4-                  c
 w~                                                                Co        (D      N)     W      N'>          CO      :D
Co
                                           G),
                                                                                     o        -,jC                  G)C
                                                                                                  <
                            G)                                         w     5-<.n0
     0                        :0                                                    c
     0)             -. 1 -       -4     0'      0)0          m '0            -n       0'          0)0C)                 0)0            cn
CD      -4     C) C)             -       -,j      CO --       m)0      m       -4     m     -4     00      4-~ --        "        0)    3
                                                 -4 4N        ") 0'i                 an     0) w~          w     0)      CD       --- A~
0'
   *
        0'l
        w~ AC
        C)
               ")
                        .
                         ~WA
                                    )
                                       W~
                                           )    'C            CD
                                                                         m)m)
                                                                        W~
                                                                           )
                                                                                     WA-~
                                                                                            )
                                                                                               00 o
                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                          00
                                                                                                                 0    .
                                                                                                                          )C
                                                                                                                                .
                             Co              0     0)0.~0'        0K)                                         0)0)    0'K      - 0>
                                                                                                                                       cn
                                               G~ -j>                              0-H      -H0                  > 0             -j
       0                                              -H)0G)>>                                00>               -j                  0H
                          0                           >0000            00-H
                             050
   CoZ-j>                                           0 K)                            2                       ~Z
          0)              )                                            0
   Co                     0))                                          0)      C)                                 )        /
                                                                                           0)                   0
                                                            -0 5    -c     m                                                            n
   0'                   M         0)0      0          0)0       0         M~     0 0        M'0)                          0 )0          ..
0~.     K
        K)
              '
                '     S)~
                          i
                             0
                               0
                                   -
                                         ~
                                      C0))
                                               0      -,        0
                                                             coI C)   CA
                                                                                    i    o 0' CA
                                                                                     - ) ' Co      0   4
                                                                                                           0      )      C      0'
 0)50)            -       o-     u00'K)C)-'0)                          -'      .~0             o -                      r-J  00'
(D0~J Z'                Z     Z        -                               z0                                                      02
                                                                                      0           K) qm

             -0         ( cC Z            .0        0       0     0       0      0       0      0      0      0      M~
                      CY X                                 -Hj   -Hi     -H     -f-tH-H
  S>         >         ~            --- i
cQ En                          D.          0                                                                           0D0
        0c
        :: -01 C:                                                mD
 00~0
    - N) -ji- F                                         0 >~     x       >'                           z      o       W
  >00                       0   -               p)         CD
                                                                                 > G)                00      (a (
               C/ <~
                   CD                      C.)                   N.)            Cn      x      0I
                G)         G.)                      11     >                    >       rG
                                                    CD     (n    =r      0      0
                                                                                -1)                  5
                                                     0N         00               0                    w
                                          S00                                   0                    0)
                                                                      0                              G0
                                   >                       E
                                          CG)                                                        G)~       -I
                                          It
                                           0                                                0
                                                                        0000                             >
        cc      ~        ~                 (0      C)~G 0) Go~
                                                       0.      0G)                                o0Dz.0 0         >   :zzo oz z
        p    ~         OC)) oc                         >)     0
                                                              G        )    G         )    C               )ZG
      m         mc-i                           -Hj         0>>0           0000>0>0>
                                                     00              >00                       ~  D o>a       2>       :
                                                       0        >0                    >0
                                          o>                                               0             0
           0')        m   0)      m                           000                   0      0              -j      G) G
       Mu              0)                              04              0>)z
           co~       ~V~ n co -nIG                         00                00                     >    0     0
                                        CG)
                    (0      n      -nz>u
          (n~*0                                                 00           00              0o*0M*00G
                                                          >0O         OM 0 M            MO        C        0    O~
                                                                            -- 0 0           -q0 >0       j     -j
                                                              0 G)Z0                                 )ZG)ZG)ZG0
                    xm~~u               mmx c          >0>>0                       0>00                          00P
                                                    C).)~       0 D0C     D0        0c     0      CD c 0 (D 0
                                                    SoG)0     >"      >w            >    0)>C4
                                                        0>
                                                                 0                                       -j
                                                       o                >00                              >0
                                                          000                                             00
                          Cy)() Ci CI0                                                      0     0     00l(3

F      ~           o             n                > ; Kz00C > x~ >                ~ c~~               z       C0 cfl
                                                                                                                  HZ
   1 -0H                           z         m                          (E              41            M                        L
                                                                                                                           --IZM
       CD                                            C)   x      <          '     0    G))                   0\       r- w
                         c-,    -n                                              (Am
C)~Ue              (D (3                                                0        0          (D
                                   G)                     G)      /                         C
                     G))                       C"                             <G)
                                                                        G)               ) 0          >
>o~o                   G)00 )G                    0       0      0
                                                  0
                                                  0I=                                                                M~0
                          0~-
                            U)          -.                 0
                                                                C-)                                                        0
        cn~                                             C)4 m    C)) nCP( T 0 0 0                0           0
w C       CC0CCm                             m)               0  m)               H m                                           04>
                 co ~                        (D                    >0               0            0     H      0
                                            17                   H3                                                  m
                                           I      0       0H                                   z
                                        CM                           0                          0     0      C
             C-)~                                                  C) ---                              ) C)
                                     x                                                        0              >0)C)-
                                                                            00                          >0
                                                                          -i
                                                                                                      m
              >    GC_
     0 > cP >/ G) G/                                                                  Cr               O                   e
   OHOO>-)0 >                     >  ~
HHHOC G)0                                                                                                            >
   G)        ~G) >)   G)o ~            O
HW       j>~O                    0                                      0                       W> 0/             0    m
 H >           M C) mm                                                                                                 X
 HO2000Cf       --     0
                            0)   0)
                                0)                oi                             en     U       U      a
          0o                                              -0     0(               C) CD (0       m     01I      w
           .                                                )    --      -'             00-           0
  WZ0              _   C,
                                                      Cl)                                                    C)      J
                                                               HO
                                                                                                         00       00
                               O'iUCYIC                                               00
                                                                                0     0>           0
                                                                                 (D 0       0       >             C
                                                      2n00        0 0
                                                                      0
                                                                              0              0
                                                                                            G)G)-H1
                                                                                                    H      - C)
                                                                 0            0>>                  >

                                                        77
RESULTS
          Frequencies of individual polymorphisms are as follows:
          Table 11. Polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies in the Lung cancer
patients, resistant smokers and controls.
Nitric oxide synthase 3 Asp 298 Glu (T/G)
Frequency                             Ailele*                            Genotype
                                 T                 G              TT           TG         GG
Controls n=183 (%)          108 (30%)         258 (70%)        13 (7%)     82 (45%)    88 (48%)
Lung Cancer n=107 (%)        71 (33%)         143 (67%)         9 (8%)     53 (50%)    45 (42%)
Resistant n=198 (%)         135 (34%)         261 (66%)      28'2(14%)     79(40%)     91 (46%)
Nitric oxide synthase 3 -786 T/C
Frequency                             Allele*                            Genotype
                         C                  T              CC           CT          TT
Controls n=183 (%)
Lung Cancer n=107 (%)    82(38%)            132 (62%)      16 (15%)     50 (47%)    413 (38%)
Resistant n=198 (%)      166 (42%)          228 (58%)      31(16%)      104(53%)    62 (31%)
Super oxide dismutase 3 Arg 312 Gin C/G
Frequency                             AlleIe*                            Genotype
                                 C                 G              CC           CG         GG
Controls n=190 (%)          371 (98%)           9 (2%)        183 (96%)      5 (3%)     2 (1%)
Lung Cancer n=104 (%)      208 (100%)           0 (0%)       104 (100%)      0(0%)      0 (0%)
Resistant n=182 (%)         390(98%)           10 (3%)        191 (95%)     84 (4%)     14(1%)
XRCCI Arg 399 Gin A/G
Frequency                             Allele*                            Genotype
                                 A                 G              AA           AG         GG
   Controls n=190 (%)
 Lung Cancer n= 103 (%)      68 (33%)         138 (67%)         4(4%)      60(58%)     39 (38%)
  Resistant n=193 (%)       132 (34%)         254 (66%)        185 (9%)    96 (50%)    79(41%)
Interleukin 8 -251 A/T

                                                     78
Frequency                          Allele*                         Genotype
                              A                 T            AA        AT          TT
   Controls n=188 (%)    175 (47%)         201 (53%)      39(21%)   97(52%)    52 (28%)
   Lung Cancer n=90       68 (38%)         112(62%)        6(7%)    56 (52%)   28 (31%)
  Resistant n=199 (%)    1927 (48%)        206 (52%)     456 (23%)  102 (51%)  52 (26%)
Anti-chymotrypsin Ala -15 Thr
Frequency                          Allele*                         Genotype
                              A                 G            AA        AG         GG
   Lung Cancer n=108      99(46%)          1179 (54%)    24(22%)    51(47%)   338 (31%)
  Resistant n=196 (%)    207 (53%)         185 (47%)     52 (27%)   103 (53%)  41(21%)
Cyclin D1 A 870 G
Frequency                          Allele*                         Genotype
                              A                 G            AA        AG         GG
   Lung Cancer n=107     109 (51%)         105 (49%)    2511 (23%)  59 (55%)   23 (21%)
  Resistant n=199 (%)    188 (47%)         210(53%)      45(23%)    98(49%)   561" (28%)
Interleukin 1B -511 A/G
Frequency                          Allele*                         Genotype
                              A                 G            AA        AG         GG
   Lung Cancer n=107      64(30%)          150(70%)       12(11%)   40 (37%)  55 12(51%)
  Resistant n=198 (%)    143 (36%)         253 (64%)     23 (12%)   97(49%)    78 (39%)
FAS (Apo-1/CD 95) A -670 G
Frequency                          Allele*                         Genotype
                              A                 G            AA        AG         GG
   Lung Cancer n=106    12114 (57%)         91 (43%)    321" (30%)  57(54%)    17 (16%)
  Resistant n=198 (%)    202 (51%)         194(49%)      45(23%)    112 (57%)  41 (21%)
XPD 751 T/G
Frequency                          Allele*                         Genotype
                              G                 T            GG        TG          TT
   Lung Cancer n=108      72(33%)           144(66%)      11 (10%)  50(46%)    47 (44%)
  Resistant n=197 (%)    147 (37%)         247 (63%)    3115 (16%)  85 (43%)   81 (41%)

                                                     79
Cytochrome P450 1A1 Ile 462 Val G/A
Frequency                          Allele*                        Genotype
                              G                A            GG        AG          AA
   Lung Cancer n=109       5 (2%)          213 (98%)      0(0%)     5 (5%)   104'6 (95%)
   Resistant n= 199 (%)    20(5%)          378 (95%)    13" (1%)   181((9%)   1802(90%)
MMP12 Asn 357 Ser
Frequency                          Allele*                        Genotype
                              G                A            GG        AG          AA
   Lung Cancer n=109       8 (4%)          210(96%)       1 (1%)     6(5%)    102(94%)
   Resistant n=199 (%)     21(5%)          377(95%)      017 (0%) 2117 (11%)  178 (89%)
8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase Ser 326 Cys C/G
Frequency                          Allele*                        Genotype
                              G                C            GG         CG         CC
   Lung Cancer n=109      40 (18%)         178 (82%)      2 (2%)   36 (33%)    71(65%)
   Resistant n=199 (%)   100 (25%)         298 (75%)    141 (7%)   72 (36%)   113 (57%)
N-Acetyltransferase 2 Arg 197 Gln G/A
Frequency                          Allele*                        Genotype
                              A                G            AA        AG          GG
   Lung Cancer n=106      55 (26%)         157 (74%)      9 (8%)   37 (35%)   6019 (57%)
   Resistant n=195 (%)   122 (31%)         268 (69%)     17 (9%)   88 (45%)    90 (46%)
Cytochrome P450 2E1 1019 G/C Pstl
Frequency                          Allele*                        Genotype
                              C                G            CC         CG         GG
   Lung Cancer n=109       10 (5%)         208 (95%)      0 (0%)   102 (9%)    99 (91%)
   Resistant n=197 (%)     11(3%)          383 (97%)      0(0%)     11 (6%)   186 (94%)
Cytochrome P450 2E1 C/T Rsa 1
Frequency                          Allele*                        Genotype
                              T                C            TT         TC         CC
   Lung Cancer n=108       11 (5%)         205 (95%)      0 (0%)  1121(10%)    97 (90%)

                                                     80
  Resistant n=198 (%)      11(3%)          385 (97%)        0(0%)       11 (6%)  187 (94%)
Interleukin 18 105 A/C
Frequency                          Allele*                            Genotype
                              C                 A             CC          AC         AA
   Lung Cancer n=107      50 (23%)         164 (77%)        8 (8%)     34 (33%)  6522 (61%)
  Resistant n=200 (%)    116 (29%)         284(71%)       1722 (9%)   8222 (41%) 101 (50%)
Interleukin 18 -133 C/G
Frequency                          Allele*                            Genotype
                              G                 C             GG          CG         CC
   Lung Cancer n=109      52 (24%)         166 (76%)        8 (7%)     36 (33%)  6523 (60%)
  Resistant n=198 (%)    117 (30%)         279 (70%)      172 (9%)    8322 (42%)  98 (49%)
Glutathione S-Transferase M null
Frequency                          Allele*
                            Null              Wild
    Controls n=178        75 (42%)         103 (58%)
   Lung Cancer n=107     6724 (58%)         48 (42%)
    Resistant n=182      100 (55%)          82 (45%)
Interferon-gamma 874 A/T
Frequency                          Allele*                            Genotype
                              A                 T             AA          AT         TT
   Controls n=186 (%)    183 (49%)         189(51%)       37(20%)      109 (58%)  40 (22%)
 Lung cancer n=106 (%)   116(55%)           96(45%)     3425.26 (32%)  48(45%)    24 (23%)
  Resistant n=196 (%)    209 (53%)         183 (47%)      50 (26%)     109 (56%)  37 (19%)
Cyclooxygenase -765 C/G
Frequency                          Allele*                            Genotype
                              C                 G             CC          CG         GG
   Controls n=95 (%)      27 (14%)         161 (86%)        3 (3%)     21 (22%)   70 (75%)
 Lung Cancer n=109 (%)    34 (16%)        184 (84%)""      5 (5%27)   24 (22%)   80 (73%)2"
  Resistant n=158 (%)    75 (24%)21        241 (76%)       11 (7%)     53 (34%)   94 (59%)

                                                         81
Matrix metalloproteinase 1 -1607 1G/2G
Frequency                              AlleIe*                                 Genotype
                                  IG               2G            IGIG             1G2G        2G2G
Controls n=174 (%)            214 (61%)        134 (39%)       68 (39%)         78 (45%)     28 (16%)
Lung Cancer n=67 (%)           58 (43%)       76  (57%)32      13 (19%)         32 (48%)    22 (33%) 3
Resistant n=171 (%)           167 (49%)        175 (51%)       41(24%)          85 (50%)     45 (26%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
   1.  Genotype. TT vs TG/GG for resistant vs lung cancer, Odds ratio (OR) =1.8, 95% confidence limits 0.8
       4.3, x (Yates uncorrected)=
             2
                                      2.14, p=0. 14,      TT genotype =protective
  2.   Genotype. TT vs TG/GG for resistant vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =2.2, 95% confidence limits 1.0
       4.6, x2 (Yates corrected)= 4.2, p=0.04,                    TT genotype =protective
  3.   Genotype. TT vs CC/CT for Lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.4, 95% confidence limits
       0.8-2.3, x2 (Yates uncorrected)=   1.45, p=0.23,           TT genotype =susceptible
  4.   Genotype CG/GG vs CC for resistant vs lung cancer, Yates uncorrected=3.38, P=0.07 and Fisher's
       Two tailed test, P=0.03.                                   CG/GG=protective
  5.   Genotype. AA vs AG/GG for resistant vs lung cancer, Odds ratio (OR) = 2.6, 95% confidence limits
       0.8-9.2, X2 (Yates uncorrected)= 2.89, p=0.09.             AA genotype = protective
  6.   Genotype. AA vs AT/TT for resistant vs lung cancer, Odds ratio (OR) =4.1, 95% confidence
       limits=1.6=11.2,  X
                           2 (Yates corrected)=9.8, p=0.002,      AA= protective
  7.   Allele. A vs T for resistant smokers vs lung cancer, Odds ratio (OR) =1.5, 95% confidence limits 1.0
       2.2, Z2 (Yates corrected)= 5.07, p=0.02,                   A=protective
  8.   Genotype. GG vs AA/AG for Lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) = 1.7, 95% confidence limits=
                 2
       0.9-2.9,    (Yates uncorrected)=3.51, p=0.06, GG =susceptible
  9.   Allele. G vs A for lung cancer vs resistant smokers, Odds ratio (OR) =1.3, 95% confidence limits 0.9
       1.9, Z2 (Yates uncorrected)= 2.71, p=O.10,                 G=susceptible
   10. Genotype. GG vs AG/AA for Resistant vs lung cancer, Odds ratio (OR) =1.4, 95% confidence
       limits=0.8-2.6, x2 (Yates uncorrected)= 1.6, p=0.20,       GG =protective

                                                    82
11. Genotype. AG/AA vs GG for Lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.4, 95% confidence
    limits=0.8-2.6,     (Yates uncorrected)= 1.6, p=0.20,    AA =susceptible
12. Genotype. GG vs AA/AG for Lung cancer vs resistant. Odds ratio (OR) = 1.6, 95% confidence limits=
    1-2.7, Z2 (Yates uncorrected)= 4.07, p=0.04,     GG =susceptible
13. Genotype. AA vs AG/GG for Lung cancer vs resistant. Odds ratio (OR) =1.5, 95% confidence
    limits=0.8-2.6, y (Yates uncorrected)=2.03, p=0.15,      AA =susceptible
                                                                                                       2
14. Allele. A vs G for Lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.3, 95% confidence limits 0.9-1.8, X
    (Yates uncorrected)= 2.04, p=O.1 5 ,                     A= susceptible
15. Genotype. GG vs TG/TT for Resistant vs lung cancer, Odds ratio (OR) =1.7, 95% confidence limits=
    0.8-3.7, y 2 (Yates uncorrected)= 1.81, p=0.18,          GG =protective
16. Genotype. AG/GG vs AA for Resistant vs lung cancer, Odds ratio (OR) =2.2, 95% confidence limits=
    0.7-6.9,  x2 (Yates uncorrected)=2.41, p=O.12, GG/AG =protective, AA=susceptible
17. Genotype. GG/AG vs AA for Resistant vs COPD, Odds ratio (OR) =1.7, 95% confidence limits= 0.7
    4.6, Z2 (Yates uncorrected)=1.45, p=0.23,                GG/AG =protective
18. Genotype. GG vs CG/CC for Resistant vs lung cancer, Odds ratio (OR) =4.0, 95% confidence
    limits=0.9-26.3, X2 (Yates uncorrected)=3.87, p=0.05,    GG =protective
19. Genotype. GG vs AG/AA for Lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.5, 95% confidence
    limits=0.9-2.5, X2 (Yates uncorrected)=3.0, p=0.08,      GG =susceptible
20. Genotype. CG vs GG for Lung cancer and resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.7, 95% confidence limits=0.7
          2
    4.5,     (Yates uncorrected)=1.42, p=0.23,       CG =susceptible
21. Genotype. TC vs CC for Lung cancer and resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.9, 95% confidence limits=0.8
    5.0, Z2 (Yates uncorrected)=2.24, p=O.13,        TC =susceptible
22. Genotype. AA vs AC/CC for Lung cancer and resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.6, 95% confidence
    limits=1.0-2.6,  x2 (Yates uncorrected)=3.51,  p=0.06,   AA =susceptible, AC/CC protective
23. Genotype. CC vs CG/GG for Lung cancer and resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.5, 95% confidence
    limits=0.9-2.5.  Z2 (Yates uncorrected)=2.90. p=0.09,    CC =susceptible, CG/GG protective

                                                       83
   24. Genotype. Null vs wild for Lung cancer and controls, Odds ratio (OR) =1.92, 95% confidence
       limits=1.2-3.2,     (Yates corrected)=6.64, p=0.01,       Null =susceptible
   25. Genotype. AA vs AT/TT for lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.4, 95% confidence limits
       0.8-2.4, X2 (Yates uncorrected)= 1.48, p=0.22,            AA genotype = susceptible
   26. Genotype. AA vs AT/TT for lung cancer vs controls. Odds ratio (OR) =1.9, 95% confidence limits
       1.1-3.4, z2 (Yates corrected)= 5.45, p=0.02,              AA genotype = susceptible to lung cancer
   27. Genotype. CC/CG vs GG for Lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.53, 95% confidence
       limits=0.3-0.9, y2 (Yates corrected)= 4.9, P=0.03         CC/CG =protective
   28. Allele. C vs G for Lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.59, 95% confidence limits 0.4- 0. 9,   y
                                                                                                                2
       (Yates corrected)= 4.8, p=0.03,                           C =protective
   29. Genotype. GG vs CG/CC for Lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.88, 95% confidence
       limits=1.1-3.3, x2 (Yates corrected)= 4.9, P=0.03         GG =susceptible (when compared against
       resistant smokers but not controls)
   30. Allele. G vs C for Lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.7, 95% confidence limits 1.1- 2.7, y 2
       (Yates corrected)= 4.8, p=0.03,                           G =susceptible (when compared against
       resistant smokers but not controls)
   31. Genotype. 2G2G vs 1G1G/1G2G for Lung cancer vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =2.55, 95% confidence
       limits 1.3-5.1, X2 (Yates corrected)= 7.3, p=0.007 2G2G genotype =susceptible
                                                                                                                2
   32. Allele. 2G vs IG for Lung cancer vs controls, Odds ratio (OR) =2.1, 95% confidence limits 1.4-3.2,     y
       (Yates corrected)= 12.3, p=0.0004,              2G = susceptible
Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) -447 G/C polymorphism allele and genotype
frequencies in the lung cancer and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                             AIIele*                  Genotype
                                  G            C            GG              GC            CC
Lung cancer n=109                201           17            92             17             0
(%)                            (92%)         (8%)          (84%)          (16%)          (0%)
Resistant n=200                  379           21           179             21             0
 (%)                           (95%)         (5%)         (90%)           (10%)          (0%)

                                                       84
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     1.  Genotype. GC/CC vs GG for lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.6, 95% confidence limits
         0.8-3.3, y2 (Yates uncorrected)= 1.70, p=0.19,
         GC/CC genotype = susceptibility (trend)
Mucin 5AC (Muc5AC) -221 C/T polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies in the
lung cancer and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                             AIIele*                  Genotype
                                  C           T           CC            CT             TT
Lung cancer n=109                177         41            73           31              5
(%)                            (81%)       (19%)         (67%)        (28%)           (5%)
Resistant n=195                 296       94(24%)          119          58             18
 (%)                           (76%)                     (61%)        (30%)           (9%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     1.  Genotype. TT vs CC/CT for lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.47, 95% confidence limits
         0.2-1.4,  2j (Yates uncorrected)= 2.16, p=O.14,
         TT genotype = protective (trend)
Mannose binding lectin (MBL2) 161 G/A polymorphism allele and genotype
frequencies in the lung cancer and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                             AIIele*                  Genotype
                                  G          A            GG           AG              AA
Lung cancer n=105                173         37            71           31              3
(%)                            (82%)       (18%)         (67%)        (30%)           (3%)
Resistant n=197                 338          56            147          44              6
 (%)                           (86%)       (14%)         (75%)        (22%)           (3%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     1.  Genotype. AG/AA vs GG for lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.4, 95% confidence limits
         0.8-2.4, )2 (Yates uncorrected)= 1.67, p=0.20,
         AG/AA genotype = susceptibility (trend)

                                                       85
Nibrin (NBS1) Glnl85Glu G/C polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies in the
lung cancer and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                             AIIeIe*                  Genotype
                                  G           C             GG             GC             CC
Lung cancer n=109                150         68              54            42              13
(%)                            (69%)       (31%)           (50%)         (39%)          (12%)
Resistant n=199                 295          103            107            81              11
 (%)                           (74%)       (26%)          (54%)          (41%)           (6%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     1.  Genotype. CC vs CG/GG for lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =2.3, 95% confidence limits
         0.9-5.8, Z' (Yates uncorrected)= 4.01, p=0.05,
         CC genotype = susceptibility
Arginase 1 (Arg1) intron 1 C/T polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies in the
lung cancer and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                             AIIeIe*                  Genotype
                                  C           T             CC             CT             TT
Lung cancer n=105                137         73              45            47              13
(%)                            (65%)       (35%)           (43%)         (45%)          (12%)
Resistant n=180                 203         157              65            73             42
 (%)                           (56%)       (44%)          (36%)          (41%)          (23%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     1.  Genotype. TT vs CC/CT for lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.46, 95% confidence limits
         0.2-0.95,  2 (Yates uncorrected)= 5.11, p=0.0 2 ,
         TT genotype = protective
                                                                                                              2
     2.  Allele. T vs C for lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.69, 95% confidence limits 0.5-1.0, Z
         (Yates corrected)= 3.96, p=0.05,
         T allele = protective
REV1 Phe257Ser C/T polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies in the lung
cancer and resistant smokers.

                                                         86
Frequency
                            Allele*                    Genotype
                                 C           T              CC               CT        TT
Lung cancer n=109               129      89(41%)             39              51         19
(%)                           (59%)                        (36%)           (47%)     (17%)
Resistant n=192                 242         142              83              76        33
 (%)                          (63%)       (37%)            (43%)           (40%)     (17%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     1.  Genotype. CC vs CT/TT for lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.73, 95% confidence limits
         0.4-1.2, 72 (Yates uncorrected)= 1.6, p=0. 2 0,
         CC genotype = protective (trend)
Insulin-like growth factor II receptor (IGF2R) Leu252Val C/G polymorphism allele
and genotype frequencies in the lung cancer and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                            Allele*                    Genotype
                                 C           G               CC              CG        GG
Lung cancer n=109               190         28               82              26         1
(%)                           (87%)       (13%)            (75%)           (24%)      (1%)
Resistant n=198                 342         54               150             42         6
 (%)                          (86%)       (14%)            (76%)           (21%)      (3%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     1.  Genotype. GG vs CC/CG for lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =0.30, 95% confidence limits
         0.01-2.5, 12 (Yates uncorrected)= 1.41, p=0.22 (1-tailed t-test),
         GG genotype = protective (trend)
Apex nuclease (APE1) Aspl48Glu T/G polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies
in the lung cancer and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                            Allele*                    Genotype
                                 T           G               TT              TG        GG
Lung cancer n=109               124         94               39              46        24
(%)                           (57%)       (43%)            (36%)           (42%)     (22%)
Resistant n=192                 229         155              69              91        32
 (%)                          (60%)       (40%)            (36%)           (47%)     (17%)

                                                       87
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     I.  Genotype. GG vs TT/TG for lung cancer vs resistant, Odds ratio (OR) =1.4, 95% confidence limits
         0.8-2.7, y2 (Yates uncorrected)= 1.3, p=0.25,
         GG genotype = susceptibility (trend)
Interleukin 10 (IL-10) -1082 A/G polymorphism allele and genotype frequencies in the
lung cancer and resistant smokers.
Frequency
                            AlIeIe*                  Genotype
                                 G           C            GG            GC             CC
Lung cancer n=98                91          105            16           59             23
(%)                           (46%)       (54%)          (16%)        (60%)          (24%)
Resistant n=196                 174        218             40           94             62
 (%)                          (44%)       (56%)          (20%)        (48%)          (32%)
* number of chromosomes (2n)
     1.  Genotype. GG vs GC/CC for lung cancer vs resistant. Odds ratio (OR) =0.66, 95% confidence limits
         0.4-1.2, y2 (Yates uncorrected)= 2.12, p=O.15,
         GG genotype = protective (trend)
         Table 12 below provides a summary of the protective and susceptibility
polymorphisms determined for lung cancer.
Table 12. Summary of protective and susceptibility polymorphisms in Lung Cancer
patients relative to resistant smokers (with normal lung function)
Gene                                            Polymorphism                 Role
Nitric Oxide synthase 3 (NOS3)                  NOS3 Asp 298 Glu             TT protective
Nitric Oxide synthase 3 (NOS3)                  NOS3 -786 T/C                TT susceptible
Superoxide dismutase 3 (SOD3)                   SOD3 Arg 312 Gln             CG/GG protective
XRCCI                                           XRCC 1 Arg 399 Gln G/A       AA protective
Interleukin-8 (IL-8)                            IL-8 -251 A/T                AA protective
Anti-chymotrypsin (ACT)                         ACT Ala 15 Thr               GG susceptible
Cyclin D (CCND1)                                CCND1 A870G                  GG protective

                                            88
                                                               AA susceptible
Interleukin lB (IL-1B)                 IL-lB -511 A/G          GG susceptible
FAS (Apo-1/CD95)                       FAS A-670G              AA susceptible
XPD                                    XPD -751 G/T            GG protective
CYP IAl                                CYP 1Al Ile 462 Val A/G GG/AG protective
                                                               AA susceptible
Matrix metalloproteinase 12 (MMP12)    MMP12 Asn 357 Ser A/G   GG/AG protective
8-Oxoguanine DNA glycolase (OGG1)      OGGI Ser 326 Cys G/C    GG protective
N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2)           NAT2 Arg 197 Gln A/G    GG susceptible
CYP2E1                                 CYP2El 1019 G/C Pst I   CC/CG susceptible
CYP2El                                 CYP2El C/T Rsa I        TT/TC susceptible
Interleukin -18 (IL- 18)               IL-18 105 A/C           AC/CC protective
                                                               AA susceptible
Interleukin -18 (IL-18)                IL-18 -133 G/C          CG/GG protective
                                                               CC susceptible
Glutathione S-transferase M            GSTM null               Null susceptible
Interferon gamma (IFNy)                IFNy 874 A/T             AA susceptible
Cyclo-oxygenase 2 (COX2)               COX2 -765 G/C           CC/CG protective
                                                               GG susceptible
Matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMPl)      MMP -1607 lG/2G         2G2G susceptible
Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) CTGF -447 G/C           GC/CC susceptible
Mucin 5AC (MUC5AC)                     MUC5AC -221 C/T         TT protective
Mannose binding lectin 2 (MBL2)        MBL2 +161 G/A           AG/AA susceptible
Nibrin (NBS1)                          NBS1 Gln185Glu G/C      CC susceptible
Arginase 1 (Argl)                      Argl intron 1 C/T       TT protective
REVI                                   REV1 Phe257Ser C/T      CC protective
Insulin-like growth factor II receptor IGF2R Leu252Val C/G     GG protective
(IGF2R)
Apex nuclease (Apex or APE 1))         Apex Asp 148Glu G/T     GG susceptible
Interleukin 10 (IL-10)                 IL-10 -1082 A/G         GG protective
          The combined frequencies of the presence or absence of the selected protective
genotypes CYPlAI GG/AG, OGGI GG, CCND1 GG, NOS3 298 TT, IL-8 AA, and

                                                     89
XRCC 1 AA observed in the subjects with lung cancer and in resistant smokers is presented
below in Table 13.
Table 13. Combined frequencies of the presence or absence of selected protective
genotypes in subjects with lung cancer and in resistant smokers.
                                        Number of protective polymorphisms
    Cohorts                             0                1                  >2                Total
    Lung Cancer                         66 (61%)         37 (34%)           6 (6%)            109
    Resistant smokers                   71(36%)          86 (43%)           42 (21%)          199
    % of smokers with Lung              66/137           37/123             6/42 (14%)
    cancer                              (48%)            (30%)
Comparison                                 Odd's ratio      95% Cl           X2           P value
0 vs 1 vs 2+, Resist vs Lung cancer        -                -                22.3         <0.0001
2+ vs 0-1, Resist vs Lung cancer           4.6               1.8-12.5        11.87        0.0005
0 vs 2+, Lung cancer vs Resist             2.8               1.7-4.6         16.7         <0.0001
         The combined frequencies of the presence or absence of the selected susceptibility
genotypes CYP2EI 1019 CC/CG, FAS AA, IL-1B GG, and ACT 15 GG, observed in the
subjects with lung cancer and in resistant smokers is presented below in Table 14.
Table 14. Combined frequencies of the presence or absence of selected susceptibility
genotypes in subjects with lung cancer and in resistant smokers.
                               Number of susceptibility polymorphisms
Cohorts                        0               1                  >2                Total
Lung Cancer                    21 (19%)        52 (48%)           35 (33%)          108
Resistant smokers              71(36%)         85 (43%)           42 (2 1%)         198
% of smokers with COPD         21/92           52/137             35/77
                               (23%)           (38%)              (45%)

                                                 90
Comparison                             Odd's ratio     95% CI       x2       P value
0 vs 1 vs 2+,                          -               -            10.2     0.006
Lung cancer vs Resist
2+ vs 0-1, Lung cancer vs Resist        1.8             1.0-3.1     4.1      0.04
0+ vs 1-2+, Resist vs COPD             2.3              1.3-4.2     8.2      0.004
         The combined frequencies of the presence or absence of the selected protective
genotypes CYP1AI GG/AG, OGG1 GG, CCND1 GG, NOS3 298 TT, SOD3 CG/GG, XPD
GG, MMP12 GG/AG, and XRCC1 AA observed in the subjects with lung cancer and in
resistant smokers is presented below in Table 15.
Table 15. Combined frequencies of the presence or absence of selected protective
genotypes in subjects with lung cancer and in resistant smokers.
                                    Number of protective polymorphisms n=8
    Cohorts                         0               1              >2            Total
    Lung Cancer                     54 (50%)        50 (46%)       5 (4%)        109
    Resistant smokers               67 (34%)        83 (42%)       50 (25%)      199
    % of smokers with Lung          54/121          50/133         5/55 (9%)
    cancer                          (45%)           (38%)
Comparison                             Odd's ratio     95% CI       x2       P value
0 vs 1 vs 2+, Resist vs Lung cancer    -               -            21.5     <0.0001
2+ vs 0-1, Resist vs Lung cancer       6.9             2.5-20.5     18.7     <0.0001
0 vs 2+, Lung cancer vs Resist         2.0              1.2-3.2     6.96     0.008
         The combined frequencies of the presence or absence of the selected susceptibility
genotypes CYP2E1 1019 CC/CG, FAS AA, IL-1B GG, ACT 15 GG, NAT2 GG, IL-18 105
AA, and IFNy AA, observed in the subjects with lung cancer and in resistant smokers is
presented below in Table 16.

                                                       91
Table 16. Combined frequencies of the presence or absence of selected susceptibility
genotypes in subjects with lung cancer and in resistant smokers.
                              Number of susceptibility polymorphisms n=7
Cohorts                       1                  2                 >3                Total
Lung Cancer                   16 (15%)           35 (32%)          58 (53%)          109
Resistant smokers             65 (33%)           66 (33%)          69 (34%)          200
% of smokers with COPD        16/81              35/101            58/127
                              (20%)              (35%)             (46%)
Comparison                                       Odd's        95% CI          X2           P value
                                                 ratio
0 vs I vs 2+,  Lung cancer vs Resist             -            -                14.6        0.0007
3+ vs 1-2, Lung cancer vs Resist                 2.2          1.3-5.6         9.4          0.002
1 vs 2-3+, Resist vs COPD                        2.8          1.5-5.4          10.7        0.001
         The combined frequencies of the presence or absence of the selected protective
genotypes CYPIA1 GG/AG, OGGI GG, CCND1 GG, NOS3 298 TT, IL-8 AA, XRCCl AA, and
Cox 2 -765 CC/CG, observed in the subjects with lung cancer and in resistant smokers is
presented below in Table 17.
Table 17. Combined frequencies of the presence or absence of protective genotypes in
the exposed smoking subjects (Lung cancer subjects and resistant smokers).
                                     Number of protective genotypes
Cohorts                              0                  1                 >2               Total
Lung Cancer                          45 (40%)           50 (43%)          19(17%)          114
Resistant smokers                    47 (23%)           79 (40%)          74 (37%)         200
% of smokers with Lung cancer        45/92 (49%)        50/129 (39%)      19/93 (20%)
Comparison                                  Odd's ratio       95% CI          X2           P value
0 vs 1 vs 2+, Resist vs Lung cancer         -                 -                16.8        0.0002
2+ vs 0-1, Resist vs Lung cancer            2.94              1.6-5.4          13.44       0.0002
0vs 2+, Lung cancer vs Resist               2.12              1.3-3.6         8.2          0.004

                                                     92
         The combined frequencies of the presence or absence of the selected susceptibility
genotypes CYP2E1 1019 CC/CG, FAS AA, IL-B 1 GG, ACT 15 GG, and MMP1 2G2G, observed
in the subjects with lung cancer and in resistant smokers is presented below in Table 18.
Table 18. Combined frequencies of the presence or absence of susceptibility genotypes
in the exposed smoking subjects (Lung cancer subjects and resistant smokers).
                              Number of susceptibility genotypes
Cohorts                       0-1             2-3                 4-6           Total
Lung Cancer                    13 (12%)       66 (61%)            30 (28%)      109
Resistant smokers             54 (27%)        113 (56%)           33 (17%)      200
% of smokers with COPD         13/67          66/179              30/63
                              (19%)           (37%)               (48%)
Comparison                                Odd's ratio        95% CI        X2         P value
0-1 vs 2-3 vs 4-6,                        -                  -             11.8       0.003
Lung cancer vs Resist
4-6 vs rest, Lung cancer vs Resist        1.9                1.0-3.5       4.6        0.03
0-1 vs rest, Resist vs COPD               2.7                1.4-5.6       8.6        0.003
         Protective polymorphisms were assigned a score of -1 while susceptibility
polymorphisms were assigned a score of +1. For each subject, a net score was then
calculated according to the presence of susceptibility and protective genotypes.               This
produced a linear spread of values, as shown in Table 14.                  When assessed as a range
between -2 to +4, a linear relationship as depicted in Figure 4 was observed. This analysis
indicates that for subjects with a net score of -2 or less, there was a minimal risk of having
lung cancer. For subjects with a net score of -1, there was an approximately one in ten risk
of having lung cancer. In contrast, for subjects with a net score of 4+ or greater, the risk
was markedly increased to over 70% (see Table 19 and Figure 4).

                                                     93
Table 19. Combined presence or absence of protective and susceptibility
polymorphisms
                           Score combining protective (-1) and susceptibility (+1) polymorphisms
                         -2         -1          0          1         2          3        4+
Lung cancer              0          2           10        21         38         23       15
N=109 (%)                (0%)       (2%)        (9%)      (19%)      (35%)      (21%)    (14%)
Resistant smokers        6          21          39        51         52         25       6
N=200 (%)                (3%)       (11%)       (20%)     (26%)      (26%)      (13%)    (3%)
% Lung cancer            0%         9%          20%       29%        42/%       48%      71%
         A   further combined         analysis was performed           using a greater number of
polymorphisms. Again, this produced a linear spread of values, as shown in Table ?. When
assessed as a range between -3 to +5, a linear relationship as depicted in Figure 5 was
observed. This analysis indicates that for subjects with a net score of-2 or less, there was a
minimal risk of having lung cancer. In contrast, for subjects with a net score of 5+ or
greater, the risk was markedly increased to 80% (see Table 20 and Figure 5).
Table 20. Combined presence or absence of protective and susceptibility
polymorphisms
                  SNP score for Lung cancer according to the presence of protective(-1) and
                                  susceptibility (+1) genotypes for all smokers
Cohorts      <-3      -2         -1        0          1        2          3        4        5+
Lung         0        1          3         10         25       32         20       14       4
cancer       (0%)     (1%)       (3%)      (9%)       (23%)    (29%)      (18%)    (13%)    (4%)
N=109
Resistant    3        12         16        34         58       48         21       7        1
smokers      (2%)     (6%)       (8%)      (17%)      29%)     (24%)      (11%)    (4%)     (0.5%)
N=200
% Lung       O'%      7%         16%       23%        30%      40%        49%      67%      80%
cancer
DISCUSSION
         The methods of the invention allow the determination of risk of disease to be
assessed. For example, a simple scoring system in which each polymorphism in a category

                                                94
(i.e. protective or susceptibility) is assigned the same value allows the combined effects of
all potentially relevant polymorphisms to be factored into the analysis. In other
embodiments, the methods of the invention utilize a scoring system with adjustment
(weighting) for the magnitude of the effect of each individual polymorphism, and again
allow all polymorphisms to be simultaneously analyzed.
         In other embodiments, analyses may utilise path anlaysis and/or Monte-Carlo
analysis where the non-genetic and genetic factors can be analyzed.
         Similar results were observed in comparing the presence or absence of susceptibility
and resistant polymorphisms in smokers with OCOPD, and in smokers with lung cancer
and resistant smokers.
         The benefit of a net susceptibility score, having been determined for a subject is that
it provides the opportunity for early prophylactic and/or therapeutic intervention.         Such
intervention may be as simple as communicating the net susceptibility score to the subject
together with an explanation of the implications of that score.       This alone may cause a
lifestyle or occupational change, with the resultant beneficial effect for the subject.
         Other, more direct approaches to prophylaxis or therapy can also be followed.
These can include pharmaceutical or other medicaments being administered directed at
favourably altering the net score of the subject together with other such approaches as
discussed herein.
         Table 21 below presents representative examples of polymorphisms in linkage
disequilibrium with the polymorphisms specified herein. Examples of such polymorphisms
can be located using public databases, such as that available at www.hapmap.org. Specified
polymorphisms are indicated in the columns marked SNP NAME. Unique identifiers are
indicated in the columns marked RS NUMBER.
Table 21. Polymorphisms reported to be in linkage disequilibrium (unless stated) with
examples of specified polymorphism.
SNP NAME      RSNUMBER         SNP NAME         RSNUMBER        SNP NAME          RSNUMBER
                                                rs6684912                         rs5277
              rs7527769                         rs2745559                         rs2066823
              rs7550380                         rs12042763                        rs4648263
              rs2206594                         rs4648250                         rs4987012
              rs6687495                         rs4648251                         rs20428

                                                      95
                 rs6681231                            rs2223626                rs20429
                 rs13376484                           rs689462                 rs4648264
                 rs12064238                           rs4648253                rs4648265
                 rs1O911911                           rs689465                 rs4648266
                 rs12743673                           rs12027712               rs4648267
                 rsl0911910                           rs689466                 rsl 1567824
                 rs12743516                           rs2745558                rs4648268
                 rsl0911909                           rs3918304                rs4648269
                 rs1 119066                           rs20415                  rs4648270
                 rsl 119065                           rs20416                  rsl2759220
                 rs1 119064                           rs4648254                rs20430
                 rsl0798053                           rs11567815               rs4648271
                 rs12409744                   -765G>C rs20417                  rs11567825
                 rsl0911908                           rs4648256                rs4648273
                 rs10911907                           rs20419                  rsl6825748
                 rs7416022                            rs2734779                rs4648274
                 rs2745561                            rs20420                  rsl6825745
                 rsl0911906                           rs20422                  rs20432
                 rs2734776                            rs20423                  rs20433
                 rs2734777                            rs5270                   rs3218622
                 rs12084433                           rs20424                  rs2066826
                 rs2734778                            rs5271                   rs5278
                 rs2745560                            rs4648257                rs4648276
                 rs2223627                            rs11567819               rs20434
                 rs2383517                            rs 3134591               rs3218623
                 rs4295848                            rs3134592                rs3218624
                 rs4428839                            rs20426                  rs5279
                 rs4609389                            rs4648258                rs4648278
                 rs4428838                            rs 11567820              rs! 3306034
                 rs12131210                           rs2745557                rs2853803
                 rs2179555                            rs 11567821              rs4648279
                 rs2143417                            rs4648259                rs4648281
                 rs2143416                            rs4648260                rs4648282
                 rsl 1583191                          rs4648261                rs11567826
                 rs2383516                            rs4648262                rs4648283
                 rs2383515                            rs 11567822              rs4648284
________rsl0911905                          _________ rs 11567823 _    _______ rs4648285
________rsl0911904                          _________ rs2066824   _    _______ rsl 1567827
               ____________________________           rs20427     _________    rs464828
                 rs4648287                            rsl042719                rs5744244
                 rs5272                               rs3729944                rs360722
                 rs4648288                            rs3730182                rs5023207
                 rs5273                               rsl042720                rs5744246
                 rs5274                               rs6879202                rs5744247
                 rs3218625                            rs3777124    -133 CIG    rs360721
________rs4648289                           _________ rs 1803051  _________    rs4988359
________rs4648290                           _________ rs8192451   _________    rsl2721559

                  S______________________                           96
                                                                    rs4987255                          rs5744248
                  S  rsl051896             __   _   _ _   _  _  _ _
                                                                                                       rs5744249
                                             _________rs3177007
   ~~               rs5275
                Srs2082382                                          rs6885272                          rs5744251
                Srs2082394                _________                 rs6889528                          rs100000356
                Srs2082395                _________                 rs4521458                          rs1834481
                    rs9325119                                       rsl0463409                         rs17215057
                    rs9325120                                       rs7702861                          rs5744253
                    rs12189018                                      IL-18 SNPs                         rs5744254
                    rs11168066                                      rs187238                           rs5744255
                    rs11959615                                      rs5744228                          rs5744256
                    rs11958940                                      rs360718                           rs5744257
                    rs4705270                                       rs360717                           rs360720
                    rsl0079142                                      rs5744229                          rs5744258
                    rs9325121                                       rs100000353                        rs5744259
                    rs11746634                                      rs5744231                          rs5744260
                    rs11168067                                      rs5744232                          rs5744261
                    rs9325122                                       rs7106524   105 A/C                rs549908
                    rs11957351                                      rs 189667                          PA-I SNPs
                    rs11948371                                      rs12290658                         rs6465787
                    rs11960649                                      rs12271175                         rs7788533
                    rs1432622                                       rs 11606049                        rs6975620
                    rs1432623                                       rs360716                           rs695601 0
                    rs11168068                                      rs360715                           rs12534508
                    rs17778257                                      rs360714                           rs4729664
                    rs2400706                                       rs2043055                          rs2527316
                    rs2895795                                       rs5744233                          rs2854235
                    rs2400707                                       rs795467                           rs10228765
                    rs2053044                                       rs12270240                         rs2854225
                    rs17108803                                      rs100000354                        rs2854226
                    rs12654778                                      rs4937113                          rs2227707
                    rs11168070                                      rs100000355                        rs2227631
                    rs11959427                                      rs360723      -675 4G15G           No rs
                    rsl042711                                       rs5744237                          NOS3 SNPs
                    rs1801704                                       rs5744238                          rs2373962
Argl6GIy            rsl042713                                       rs5744239                          rs2373961
                    rsl042714                                       rs7932965   _    _______           rs6951150
                    rsl042717                                       rs11214103  _    _______           rs13238512
                    rs1800888                                       rs5744241   _________              rs10247107
                    rsl042718                                       rs5744242   _________              rs10276930
                    rs3729943                                       rs5744243   _________              rs10277237
   ________         rs12703107            _________                 rs9282804   _________              rs2282679
   ________         rs6946340              Asp298GIu                rs 1799983  ________               rs2282680
   _______-rs6946091                      ________                  VDBP SNPs                      -rs705117
   ________         rs6946415             _________                 rs222035    _________              rs207O741
   ________         rs10952296            _________                 rs222036    _________rs207O742
   ________         rs13309715            _________                 rs16846943  _________              rs6821541

                                        97
                 rsl0952297             rs7668653                     rs222048
                 rs7784943              rs1491720                     rs432031
_______rs11771443                       rs16845007                    rs432035
                 rs224331 0             rsl7830803                    rs222049
                 rs1800783   Glu4l6Asp  rs7041                        rs222050
                 rs3918155   Lys420Thr  rs4588                        rs12510584
                 rs3918156              rs3737553                     rs17467825
                 rs2566519              rs9016                        GSTPI SNPs
                 rs3918157              rs1352846                     rs656652
                 rs3918158              rs222039                      rs625978
                 rs3918159              rs3775154                     rs6591251
                 rs2566516              rs222040                      rs12278098
                 rs3918225              rs843005                      rs612020
                 rs3918160              rs222041                      rsl2284337
                 rs1800779              rs7672977                     rs12574108
                 rs2243311              rs705121                      rs6591252
                 rs3918161              rs 11723621                   rs597717
                 rsl0952298             rs2298850                     rs688489
                 rs2070744              rs705120                      rs597297
                 rs3918226              rs2298851                     rs6591253
                 rs3918162              rs844806                      rs6591254
                 rs3918163              rs1491709                     rs7927381
                 rs3918164              rs705119                      rs7940813
                 rs3918165              rs6845925                     rs593055
                 rs1800781              rs12640255                    rs7927657
                 rsl3310854             rsl2644050                    rs614080
                 rs13310763             rs6845869                     rs7941395
                 rs2853797              rs12640179                    rs7941648
                 rs13311166             rs222042                      rs7945035
                 rsl3310774             rs3187319                     rs2370141
                 rs2853798              rs222043                      rs2370142
                 rs11974098             rs842999                      rs7949394
                 rs3918166              rs222044                      rs7949587
                 rs3730001              rs222045                      rs6591255
                 rs3918167              rs16846912                    rs8191430
                 rs3918168              rs222046                      rs6591256
                 rs3918169              rs705118                      rs8191431
                 rs3918170              rs222047                      rs8191432
                 rs3793342              rs13142062                    rs7109914
                 rs3793341              rs843000                      rs4147580
                 rs1549758              rs3755967                     rs8191436
                 rsl007311              rsl491710                     rs8191437
________         rs9282803  _________   rs2282678     _________       rs17593068
________-rs8191438            ________I rs2069718   I               frs7145047
________         rs8191439  _________   rs3087272     _________       rs7141735
_______rs8191440            _________   rs2069719     _     _______   rsl 1558264
________         rs8191441  _________   rs9282706       ________      rs6647

                                                           98
                    rsl079719                              rs2069720                        rs8350
                    rs1871041                              rsl042274                        rs2230075
    ________rs4147581                                      rs2069721                        rs1049800
                    rs8191444                              rs2069734               S allele rsl 7580
                    rs8191445                              rs2069722                        rs2854258
                    rs2370143                              rs2234687                        rs2753937
                    rs8191446                              rs7957366                        rs2749547
                    rs3891249                              rs2069723                        rsl243162
                    rs8191447                              rs2069724                        rs2753938
                    rsl2796085                             rs2069725                        rs207O7O9
                    rs8191448                              rs4394909                        rs17090719
                    rs762803                               rs2069726                        rs11846959
                    rs8191449                              rs2069727                        rs1802962
llelO5Val           rs947894                               IL-13 SNPs                       rs2749521
                    rs4986948         -1055 C/T            rs1800925                        rs2753939
                    rs675554                               rs 11575055                      rsl 802959
                    rs749174                               rs2069755                        rs1802961
                    rs8191450                              rs2069741                        rs1050469
                    rs743679                               rs2069742               Z allele no rs
                    rs 1799811                             rs2069743                        rsl 050520
                    rs11553890                             rs2069756                        rs12077
                    rs4986949                              rs3212142                        rs12233
                    rs8191451                              rs2066960                        rs13170
                    rs 1871042                             rs1295687                        rs1303
    ________rs11553892         _________rs3212145                                           rs1802960
    ________rs4891             _________                   rs2069744                        rsl243163
    ________rs6413486          _________                   rs2069745                        rs2073333
    ________rs5031031          _________                   rs2069746                        rs1243164
                    rs947895   _________                   rs2069747                        rs7144409
                                      ___________rs2069748                                  rs7 142803
                    rs2069707                              rs1295686                        rs1243165
                    rs3814242        Arg 130GIn            rs20541                          rs1051052
                    rs2069709                              rs2069749                        rs1243166
                    rs2069710                              rs1295685                        rsl 1628917
                    rs2069711                              rs848                            rs11832
                    rs2069712                              rs2069750                        rs9944155
874 AfT             rs2430561                              rs847                 1237 G/A   rs11568814
                                                           al -antitrypsin
                    rs2069713                              SNPs                             rs877081
                    rs1861494                              rs709932                         rs877082
                    rs2234685                              rs 11558261                      rs877083
                    rs1861493                              rs20546                          rs877084
                    rs2069714                              rs 11558263                      rs875989
                    rs2069715                              F1028580                         rs9944117
    ________rs2069716          _________                   rs7145770                        rs1884546
    ________rs2069717          _________                   rs2239652       _________        rs1884547
                    rs1885065                              rs2735442                        rs8046608

                                                99
              rs1884548                         rs2569693    rs5743264
              rs1243167                         rs281439     rs5743266
   ________   rs17751614                        rs281440     rs2076752
              rsl884549                         rs2569694    rs5743267
              rs1243168                         rs 11575073  rs8061316
              rs17090693                        rs2569695    rs8061636
   ________   rs17824597          _________     rs2075741    rs16948754
            _________               ___________ rsl 11575074 rs7206340
   ________   rs1799964           _________     rs2569696    rs2076753
   ________   rs1800630           _________     rs2735439    rs2067085
   ________   rs1799724           _________     rs2569697    rs16948755
+489 G/A      rs1800610           ________      rs2075742    rs2l 11235
   _______    rs3093662           _________     rs2569698    rs2111234
   ________   rs3093664           _________     rs 11669397  rs7190413
-308 G/A      rs1800629 (1)       _______       rs901886     rs7206582
            _____________________               rs885742     rs8045009
C89Y            89      o rs (2)  ________      rs2569699    rs6500328
            _____________________               rsl1056538   rs7 500036
              rs1799969                         rs1 1549918  rs8057341
              rs5493                            rs2569700    rs12918060
              rs5030381                         rs2228615    rs7204911
              rs5494                            rs2569701    rs7500826
              rs3093033                         rs2569702    rs4785449
              rs5495                            rs2735440    rs12922299
              rs1801714                         rs2569703    rsl 1649521
              rs13306429                        rsl0418913   rs13339578
              rs2071441                         rsl056536    rs17221417
              rs5496                            rs2569704    rs13331327
              rs5497                            rs 11673661  rsl116424 82
              rs13306430                        rs2569705    rsl 1642646
   E469K      rs5498                            rsl0402760   rs17312836
              rs5030400                         rs2569706    rs5743268
              rs2071440                         rs2569707    rs5743269
              rs5499                            rs2735441    rs5743270
              rs3093032                         rs2436545    rs12925051
              rsl057981                         rs2436546    rs12929565
              rs5500                            rs2916060    rs13380733
              rs5501                            rs2916059    rs13380741
              rs5030383                         rs2916058    rsl 1647841
              rs281436                          rs2569708    rs10451131
              rs923366                          rs12972990   rs2066842
              rs281437                          rs735747     rs5743271
              rs3093030                         rs885743     rs7498256
              rs5030384                         NOD2 SNPs    rs5743272
              rs5030385                         rs4785224    rs5743273
              rs3810159                         rs5743261    rs2076754
              rs281438                          rs5743262    rs2066843
              rs3093029                         rs5743263    rs1078327

                      100
          rs5743274    rs11645386            rs1031101
          rs1861759    rs7187857             rs10824795
          rs5743275    rs8061960             rs10824794
          rs5743276    rs5743294             rs920725
          rs2066844    rs2357791             rs7916582
          rs5743277    rs7359452             rs920724
          rs5743278    rs7203344             rs16933335
          rs6413461    rs5743295             rs11003125
          rs3813758    rs5743296             rs7100749
          rs5743279    rs3135499             rs11003124
          rs5743280    rs5743297             rs7084554
          rs5743281    rs5743298             rs7096206
          rs4785225    rs5743299             rs11003123
          rs16948773   rs3135500             rs11575988
          rs9931711    rs5743300             rs11575989
          rs17313265   rs8056611             rs7095891
          rsl 1646168  rs2357792             rs4647963
          rs9925315    rs12600253            rs8179079
          rs5743284    rs12598306            rs5030737
          rs5743285    rs7205423  161 G/A    rs1800450
          rs751271     rs718226              rs1800451
          rs748855     MBL2 SNPs             rs12246310
          rs1861758    rs7899547             rs12255312
          rs13332952   rs10824797            rs11003122
          rs7198979    rs11003131            rs1982267
          rs1861757    rs930506              rs1982266
          rs7203691    rs930505              rs4935047
          rs5743286    rs11003130            rs4935046
          rs5743287    rs2384044             rs10824793
          rs10521209   rs2384045             rs1838066
Gly88lArg rs2066845    rs5027257             rs1838065
          rs5743289    rs2384046             rs930509
          rs8063130    rs12263867            rs930508
          rs2076756    rs11003129            rs930507
          rs12920425   rs12221393            CMA1 SNPs
          rs12920040   rs2165811             rs1956920
          rs12920558   rs12782244            rs1956921
          rs12919099   rs11003128  -1903 G/A rs1800875
          rs12920721   rs17664818            rs1800876
          rs2076755    rs7475766             rs3759635
          rs5743290    rs10824796            rs1956922
          rs5743291    rs16933417            rs1956923
          rs11642651   rs2165810             NAT2 SNPs
          rs1861756    rs11003127            rs11780272
          rs749910     rs3925313             rs2101857
          rs4990643    rs7094151             rs13363820
          rs1077861    rs7071882             rs6984200
          rs5743292    rs12264958            rs13277605
          rs9921146    rs11003126            rs9987109

                                                101
    ________ rs7820330                           rs7596849        -366 G/A   rs9550373
             rs7460995                           rs4848306                   rs11542984
             rs2087852                           rs3087257                   rs4769055
    _______  rs2101684                           rs7556811                   rs17074937
             rs7011792                           rs7556903                   rs9671065
             rs1390358                           rs6743438                   rs9579645
             rs923796                            rs6743427                   rs9579646
             rs4546703                           rs6761336                   rs4075131
    ________ rs4634684                           rs6761335                   rs4075132
             rs2410556                           rs6743338                   rs9315043
             rs11996129                          rs6761245                   rs9315044
             rs4621844                           rs6761237                   rs4597169
             rs11785247                          rs6743330                   rs9578037
             rs1 115783                          rs6743326                   rs9578196
             rs1 115784                          rs6743322                   rs4293222
             rs1961456                           rs6761220                   rs10507391
             rsl 112005                          rs6761218                   rsl2429692
             rs11782802                          rs5021469                   rs4769871
             rs973874                            rs6710598                   rs4769872
             rs1495744                           rs 1143623                  rs4769873
             rs7832071                           rs 1143624                  rsl2430051
             rs1805158                           rs2708920                   rs9315045
    _______  rs1801279                           rs 1143625                  rs9670278
             rsl041983                           rs2853545                   rs4503649
             rs180128O                           rs2708921                   rs9508832
             rs4986996                           rs 1143626                  rs9670460
             rs12720065                          rs3087258                   rs3885907
             rs4986997        C-511T             rs16944                     rs3922435
             rs1799929                           rs3917346                   rs9551957
Arg 197GIn   rs1799930                           rs4986962                   rs12018461
    _______  rsl2OB_________                     rs 1143627                  rs9551958
    _______  rs1799931       ________            MEH SNPs                    rs 10467440
    _______  rs2552           Tyri l3His         rs 1051740 (2)              rs12017304
    ______   rs4646247        Hisl 39Arg         rs2234922 (2)               rs9551959
    _______  rs971473        ________            ALOX5AP SNPs                rsl 1617473
    _______  rs721398        ________            rs4076128                   rs11147438
                                    ___________  rs9508830                   rs10162089
             rs10169916                          rs4073259                   rs9551960
             rs13009179                          rs4073260                   rs9285075
             rs4849127                           rs 11616333                 rs12431114
             rs4849126                           rs4073261                   rs4254165
             rs7558108                           rs4075474                   rs4360791
             rs13032029                          rs4075473      _________    rs17612031
             rs13013349                          rs9670115      _    _______ rs3803277
             rsl2623093                          rs9315042      _________    rs3803278
             rs3087255                           rs3809376      _________    rsl2429469
             rs3087256                           rs12877064     _________    rs17612099

                                                         102
                 rs672 1954                               rs9506531                            rs9550576
                 rs12621220                               rs9670503                            rs4356336
                 rs4554666                                rs2075800                            rs2734714
                 rs4238137                                CLCAI SNPs                           rs6661730
                 rs17612127                               rs2791519                            rs2753377
                 rs4147063                                rs2791518                            rs2753378
                 rs4147064                                rs5744302                            rs2145412
                 rs4147062                                rs1321697                            rs2150762
                 rs9315046                                rs2753335                            rsl005569
                 rs9506352                                rs2791517                            rs5744325
                 rs9670531                                rs5744303                            rs5744326
                 rs9671152                                rs2734706                            rs1955554
                 rs9315047                                rs2753345                            rs1985555
                 rs17690694                               rs2753347                            rslOOOO0lO2
                 rs9652070                                rs2753345                            rslOOOO0lO3
                 rs17074966                               rs2753349                            rs1969719
                 rs4387455                                rs5744304                            rs2390102
                 rs4254166                                rs5744305                            rs5744329
                 rs4075692                                rs1355626                            rs1407142
                 rs17690745                               rs2753359                            rs2753354
                 rs9671124                                rs5744306                            rs275335
                 rs9671125                                rs2734711                            rs5744330
________rs9741436                                         rs5744307                            rs5744331
                 rs9575197                                rs2734712                            rs926064
                 rs4769056                                rs2753361                            rs926065
                 rs11147439                               rs2753364                            rs926066
________rs12721459                                        rs1555359                            rs926067
________rs4769574                                         rs2753365                            rs2753356
              __________rslOOOO0lOO                                                            rs2180764
________rsl043618                                         rslOOOO0l0l                          rs2734659
________rs1         1576009                               rs5744310                            rs5744332
_______rs11557922                                         rs5744311                            rs5744333
                 rs11576010                               rs5744312                            rs11161837
                 rs1008438                                rs4656114                            rs5744335
                 rs11576011                               rs5744313                            rs2038485
                 rs4713469                                rs2753367                            rs3765959
                 rs16867582                               rs4656115                            rs2734690
                 rs12526722                               rs2734713                            rs5744336
                 rs6933097                                rs5744314                            rs2734691
                 rs12213612                               rs5744315                            rs2734692
                 rs481825                                 rs5744316                            rs5744337
                 rs7757553                                rs5744317                            rs5744335
                 rs7757496                                rs5744316                            rs2734694
                 rs9469057                                rs926063                             rs5744339
________rs12182397                  _________rs5744319                    _________rslOOOO0lO4
________rs16567560                  _________rs5744320                    _________rs2791515
_______rs2075799                                       t________rs5744321 _________rs4656116

                                103
           rs482145              rs5744322           rs5744342
           rs2227957             rs5744323           rs5744343
T2437C     rs2227956             rs5744324           rs2180761
           rs2227955             rs2791516           rs5744344
           rs5744345             rs5744443           rs6032038
           rs1358825             rs5744444           rs6032039
           rs2145410             rs3138074           rs2267863
           rs2734695             rs13166911          rs6124692
           rs5744346             rs2563310   +49 CIT Nors
           rs5744347             rs2569193           rs17333103
           rslOO000105           rs2569192           rs17333180
           rs5744349             rs5744446           rs1983649
           rs4655913             rs5744447           rs16989785
           rs1321696             rs5744448           rs17424356
           rs5744352             rs3138076           rs6017500
           rs11583355            rs12519656          rs6032040
           rslOO000106           rs5744449           rs6017501
           rs1321695             rs2915863           rs2664581
+13924 T/A rs1321694             rs3138078           rs17424474
           rs2791514             rs6875483           rs17333381
           rs2734696             rs2569191           rs1053826
           rs5744354             rs5744451           rs2664533
           rs2791513             rs5744452           rs1053831
           rs2753332             rslOO000098         rs2664520
           rs2791512             rs17118968          rs2267864
           rs2791511             rs5744455           rs13038355
           rs2734697   -159 C/T  rs2569190           rs13043296
                                 rs2569189           rs13039213
           rs6877461             rs2563303           rs6104049
           rs3822356             rs3138079           rs13043503
           rs6877437             rs2228049           rs6104050
           rs12153256            rs13763             rs17424578
           rs11554680            rs11556179          rs17424613
           rs12109040            rs4914              rs6017502
           rs12517200            Elafin SNPs         rs6094101
           rs5744430             rs2868237           rs6130778
           rs5744431             rs4632412           rs6130779
           rs100000092           rs7347427           rs6104051
           rs5744433             rs6032032           rs6104052
           rs100000093           rs10854230          ADBR2SNPs
           rs4912717             rs7347426           rs2082382
           rs100000094           rs8183548           rs2082394
           rslOO000095           rs6104047           rs2082395
           rs100000096           rs6513967           rs9325119
           rs6864930             rs13038813          rs9325120
           rs100000097           rs8118673           rs12189018
           rs6864583             rs7346463           rs11168066

                 __________
                _______             __________104                  ______
   _______-rs6864580                _________         rs7362841    _    _______      rs11959615
   ________       rs6889418         _________         rs13042694   _    _______      rsl 1958940
   ________       rs6889416         _________         rs13038342                     rs4705270
   ________-rs5744440                                 rs7363327                      rsl 0079142
   ________       rs5744441         _________         rs6073668    _________         rs9325121
   _______        rs5744442         _    _______      rs13044826   ________          rs11746634
                  rs 11168067                        rs1800468                     rs542603
                  rs9325122                          rs4987025                     rs574939
                  rs 11957351                        rs1800469                     rs573764
                  rs1 1948371                        rs11466314                    rs7102189
                  rsl 1960649                        rsl2977628                    rs575727
                  rs1432622                          rsl2977601                    rs552306
                  rs1432623                          rs12985978                    rs634607
                  rs 11168068                        rs11466315                    rs12286876
                  rs17778257                         rs11551223  _     _______     rs12285331
                  rs2400706                          rs11551226                    rs519806
                  rs2895795                          rs11466316                    rs12283571
                  rs2400707                          rsl3306706                    rs2839969
                  rs2053044                          rs13306707                    rs20006O9
                  rs17108803                         rsl3306708                    rs7125865
                  rs12654778                         rs9282871                     rs570662
                  rs 11168070              Leul1OPro rs1982073                     rs 11225427
                  rs11959427                         rs1800471                     rs484915
                  rsl042711                          rs13447341                    rs470307
   ________       rs1801704                          rs11466318                    rs2408490
   ________       rsl042713                          rs12976890                    rs 12279710
Gln27Glu          rsl042714                          rs12978333                    rs685265
   ________       rsl042717                          rsl0420084                    rs7107224
   _______        rs 1800888                         rs10418010                    rs 1155764
   ________       rsl042718                          rs12983775  _________         rs534191
                ____________                         rs12462166  _________rs509332
     Ar~3Gy       rs1799895 (2)                      rs2241715                     rs12283759
                __________rs9749548                                                rs2l 05581
                  rsl529717                          rs7258445                     rs470206
                  rsl046909                          rs11466320                    rs533621
   ______         rs2241712                          rs11466321    -1607 GIGG      rs1799750
                  rs2241713                          rs8108052   _     _______     rs470211
                  rs2241714                          rs6508976                     rs470146
                  rs 11673525                        rs8108632                     rs2075847
                  rs2873369                          rs11466324                    rs473509
                  rsll083617                         rs2241716                     rs498186
                                                                                   GSTMI
                  rs11083616                         rs2241717                     polymorphism
                  rs4803458                          rs2288873    Null             Null allele No rs (2)
                  rs 11670143                        rs12973435                    MMP9 SNPs
                  rs1982072                          rs2014015                     rsl 1696804
                  rs11668109                         rs1989457                     rs6104416

                                                105
                 rs13345981                     rsl04O6816            rs3933239
                 rs 11666933                    rs8102918             rs3933240
                 rs 11466310                    rs4803455             rs6094237
                 rs 11466311                    MMP1 SNPs             [si1697325
                 rs2317130                      rs529381              rs6130988
                 rs4803457                      rsl 144396            rs6073983
                 rs3087453                      rs504875              rs6130989
                 rs1800820                      rs526215              rs6130990
                 rsl054797                      rs12280880            rsl0211842
                 rs6073984                       rs8125587              TIMP3 SNPs
                 rs6073985                       rs3918253              rs5754289
                 rs8121 146                      rs2274755              rs5754290
                 rs6032620                       rs2664538              rs9606994
                 rs 11698788                     rs3918254              rs7285034
                 rs6032621                       rs6130993              rs13433582
                 rs6065912   _________rs3918255                         rs1962223
                 rs6104417                       rs2236416              rs8137129
                 rs3848720                       rs6130994              rs1807471
                 rs13040272                      rs3918256              rs7290885
                 rs6104418                       rs3918281              rs5749511
                 rs3848721                       rs3787268              rs11703366
                 rs3848722                       rs3918257              rs4990774
                 rs6104419                       rs6017725  -1296 TIC   rs9619311
                 rs4810482                       rs6032623              rs2234921
                 rs3761157                       rs3918258              rs2234920
                 rs3761158                       rs2250889              rs16991235
                 rs3761159                       rs3918259              rs4638893
                 rs8113877                       rs3918260              rs12169569
                 rs6065913                       rs 13969               rs5998639
                 rs6104420                       rs6104427              rs7284166
                 rs6104421                       rs6104428              rs5749512
                 rs391 6240                      rs2274756
                 rs6l 04422                      rs6O 17726
                 rs3918278                       rs3918261
                 rs391 8241                      rs6O 32624
-1562 CfT        rs3918242                       rs3918262
                 rs391 8243                      rs391 8263
                 rs391 8279                      rs391 8264
                 rs391 8280                      rs6l 30995
                 rs4578914                       rs61 30996
                 rs6017724                       rs391 8265
                 rs391 8244                      rs391 8266
                 rs391 8245                      rs391 8267
                 rs6l 30992                      rs6073987
                 rs391 8247                      rs6073988
   ________rs391       8248  ________            rs391 8282
   ________rs391       8249  ________            rsl802909

                                               106
              rs6104423                         rs13925
              rs6104424                         rs20544
              rs6104425                         rs1056628
              rs6104426                         rs1802908
              rs3918250                         rs2664517
              rs1805089                         rs9509
              rs3918251                         rs3918268
              rs13040572                        rs3918269
              rs13040580                        rs3918270
              rs3918252                         MMP12 SNPs
              rs8125581          -82 A/G        rs2276109 (2)
(1 = no other SNPs reported to be in LD, 2=no other SNPS reported to be in LD)
INDUSTRIAL APPLICATION
         The present invention is directed to methods for assessing a subject's risk of
developing a disease. The methods comprise the analysis of polymorphisms herein shown
to be associated with increased or decreased risk of developing a disease, or the analysis of
results obtained from such an analysis, and the determination of a net risk score. Methods
of treating subjects at risk of developing a disease herein described are also provided.
         Publications
     1. Sandford AJ, et al., 1999. Z and S mutations of the al-antitrypsin gene and the risk
         of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 20; 287-291.
    2. Maniatis,T., Fritsch, E. F. and Sambrook, J., Molecular Cloning Manual. 1989.
    3. Papafili A, et al., 2002. Common promoter variant in cyclooxygenase-2 represses
         gene expression. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 20; 1631-1635.
    4. Ukkola, 0., Erkkila, P. H., Savolainen, M. J. & Kesaniemi, Y. A. 2001. Lack of
         association between polymorphisms of catalase, copper zinc superoxide dismutase
         (SOD),     extracellular SOD and endothelial nitric oxide synthase genes and
         macroangiopathy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Int Med 249; 451-459.
     5. Smith CAD & Harrison DJ, 1997. Association between polymorphism in gene for
         microsomal epoxide hydrolase and susceptibility to emphysema. Lancet. 350; 630
         633.
     6. Lorenz E, et al., 2001. Determination of the TLR4 genotype using allele-specific
         PRC. Biotechniques. 31; 22-24.

                                               107
     7. Cantlay     AM,    Smith   CA,    Wallace    WA,     Yap   PL,   Lamb    D,   Harrison
         DJ.Heterogeneous     expression and polymorphic        genotype of glutathione      S
         transferases in human lung. Thorax. 1994, 49(10):1010-4.
                                               ***
         All patents, publications, scientific articles, and other documents and materials
referenced or mentioned herein are indicative of the levels of skill of those skilled in the art
to which the invention pertains, and each such referenced document and material is hereby
incorporated by reference to the same extent as if it had been incorporated by reference in
its entirety individually or set forth herein in its entirety. Applicants reserve the right to
physically incorporate into this specification any and all materials and information from
any such patents, publications, scientific articles, web sites, electronically available
information, and other referenced materials or documents.
         The specific methods and compositions described herein are representative of
various embodiments or preferred embodiments and are exemplary only and not intended
as limitations on the scope of the invention.          Other objects, aspects, examples and
embodiments will occur to those skilled in the art upon consideration of this specification,
and are encompassed within the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the
claims. It will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that varying substitutions and
modifications can be made to the invention disclosed herein without departing from the
scope and spirit of the invention. The invention illustratively described herein suitably can
be practiced in the absence of any element or elements, or limitation or limitations, which is
not specifically disclosed herein as essential. Thus, for example, in each instance herein, in
embodiments or examples of the present invention, any of the terms "comprising",
"consisting essentially of', and "consisting of' may be replaced with either of the other two
terms in the specification, thus indicating additional examples, having different scope, of
various alternative embodiments of the invention.             Also, the terms "comprising",
"including", containing", etc. are to be read expansively and without limitation.           The
methods and processes illustratively described herein suitably may be practiced in differing
orders of steps, and that they are not necessarily restricted to the orders of steps indicated
herein or in the claims.    It is also that as used herein and in the appended claims, the
singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural reference unless the context clearly

                                               108
dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, a reference to "a host cell" includes a plurality (for
example, a culture or population) of such host cells, and so forth. Under no circumstances
may the patent be interpreted to be limited to the specific examples or embodiments or
methods specifically disclosed herein.         Under no circumstances may the patent be
interpreted to be limited by any statement made by any Examiner or any other official or
employee of the Patent and Trademark Office unless such statement is specifically and
without qualification or reservation expressly adopted in a responsive writing by
Applicants.
        The terms and expressions that have been employed are used as terms of description
and not of limitation, and there is no intent in the use of such terms and expressions to
exclude any equivalent of the features shown and described or portions thereof, but it is
recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as
claimed.    Thus, it will be understood that although the present invention has been
specifically disclosed by preferred embodiments and optional features, modification and
variation of the concepts herein disclosed may be resorted to by those skilled in the art, and
that such modifications and variations are considered to be within the scope of this
invention as defined by the appended indicative claims.
        The invention has been described broadly and generically herein.         Each of the
narrower species and subgeneric groupings falling within the generic disclosure also form
part of the invention. This includes the generic description of the invention with a proviso
or negative limitation removing any subject matter from the genus, regardless of whether or
not the excised material is specifically recited herein.
        Other embodiments are within the following indicative claims. In addition, where
features or aspects of the invention are described in terms of Markush groups, those skilled
in the art will recognize that the invention is also thereby described in terms of any
individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

                                            109
CLAIMS
1.  A method of assessing a subject's risk of developing a disease which comprises:
         analysing a biological sample from said subject for the presence or absence of
    protective polymorphisms and for the presence or absence of susceptibility
    polymorphisms, wherein said protective and susceptibility polymorphisms are
    associated with said disease;
         assigning a positive score for each protective polymorphism and a negative score
    for each susceptibility polymorphism or vice versa;
         calculating a net score for said subject, said net score representing the balance
    between the combined value of the protective polymorphisms and the combined
    value of the susceptibility polymorphisms present in the subject sample;
         wherein a net protective score is predictive of a reduced risk of developing said
    disease and a net susceptibility score is predictive of an increased risk of developing
    said disease.
2.  A method according to claim 1 wherein the value assigned to each protective
    polymorphism is the same.
3.  A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the value assigned to each
    susceptibility polymorphism is the same.
4.  A method according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein each protective
    polymorphism has a negative value and each susceptibility polymorphism having a
    positive value.
5.  A method according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein each protective
    polymorphism has a positive value and each susceptibility polymorphism has a
    negative value.
6.  A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein when the disease is a lung
    disease, the protective polymorphisms analysed may be selected from one or more of
    the group consisting of:
      +760GG or +760CG within the gene encoding superoxide dismutase 3 (SOD3);
      -1296TT     within the promoter      of the    gene   encoding   tissue  inhibitor of
      metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP3);

                                          110
      CC (homozygous P allele) within codon 10 of the gene encoding transforming
      growth factor beta (TGFB);
      2G2G within the promoter of the gene encoding metalloproteinase 1 (MMP1); or
      one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of these
      polymorphisms.
7.  A method according to claim 6 wherein all polymorphisms of the group are analysed.
8.  A method according to any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein when the disease is a lung
    disease, the susceptibility polymorphisms analysed are selected from one or more of
    the group consisting of:
      -82AA within the promoter of the gene encoding human macrophage elastase
      (MMP12);
      -1562CT or - I 562TT within the promoter of the gene encoding metalloproteinase 9
      (MMP9);
      1237AG or 1237AA (Tt or tt allele genotypes) within the 3' region of the gene
      encoding ul-antitrypsin (alAT); or
      one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of these
      polymorphisms.
9.  A method according to claim 8 wherein all polymorphisms of the group are analysed.
10.  A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein when the disease is COPD,
    the protective polymorphisms analysed may be selected from one or more of the
    group consisting of:
      -765 CC or CG in the promoter of the gene encoding cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2);
      Arg 130 Gln AA in the gene encoding Interleukin-13 (IL-13);
      Asp 298 Glu TT in the gene encoding nitric oxide synthase 3 (NOS3);
      Lys 420 Thr AA or AC in the gene encoding vitamin binding protein (VDBP);
      Glu 416 Asp TT or TG in the gene encoding VDBP;
      Ile 105 Val AA in the gene encoding glutathione S-transferase (GSTPI);
      MS in the gene encoding al-antitrypsin (a1AT);
      the +489 GG geneotype in the gene encoding Tumour Necrosis factor a (TNFa);
      the -308 GG geneotype in the gene encoding TNFa;
      the C89Y AA or AG geneotype in the gene encodoing SMAD3;

                                          111
      the 161 GG genotype in the gene encodoing Mannose binding lectin 2 (MBL2);
      the -1903 AA genotype in the gene encoding Chymase 1 (CMA1);
      the Arg 197 Gln AA genotype in the gene encoding N-Acetyl transferase 2 (NAT2);
      the His 139 Arg GG genotype in the gene encoding Microsomal epoxide hydrolase
      (MEH);
      the -366 AA or AG genotype in the gene encoding 5 Lipo-oxygenase (ALOX5);
      the HOM T2437C TT genotype in the gene encoding Heat Shock Protein 70 (HSP
      70);
      the exon 1 +49 CT or TT genotype in the gene encoding Elafin;
      the Gln 27 Glu GG genotype in the gene encoding     P2 Adrenergic receptor (ADBR);
      the -1607 IGIG or IG2G genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding Matrix
      Metalloproteinase 1 (MMP1);
      or one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of these
      polymorphisms.
11. A method according to claim 10 wherein all polymorphisms of the group are
    analysed.
12. A method according to any one of claims I to 5, 10 or 11 wherein when the disease is
    COPD, the susceptibility polymorphisms analysed are selected from one or more of
    the group consisting of:
      Arg 16 Gly GG in the gene encoding p2-adrenoreceptor (ADRB2);
       105 AA in the gene encoding Interleukin- 18 (IL- 18);
      -133 CC in the promoter of the gene encoding IL- 18;
      -675 5G5G in the promoter of the gene encoding plasminogen activator inhibitor 1
      (PAI-I);
      -1055 TT in the promoter of the gene encoding IL-13;
      874 TT in the gene encoding interferon gamma (IFN7);
      the +489 AA or AG genotype in the gene encoding TNFa;
      the -308 AA or AG genotype in the gene encoding TNFa;
      the C89Y GG genotype in the gene encoding SMAD3;
      the E469K GG genotype in the gene encoding Intracellular Adhesion molecule 1
      (ICAMI);

                                          112
      the Gly 881 Arg GC or CC genotype in the gene encoding Caspase (NOD2);
      the -511 GG genotype in the gene encoding ILIB;
      the Tyr 113 His TT genotype in the gene encoding MEH;
      the -366 GG genotype in the gene encoding ALOX5;
      the HOM T2437C CC or CT genotype in the gene encoding HSP 70;
      the +13924 AA genotype in the gene encoding Chloride Channel Calcium-activated
      1 (CLCA1);
      the -159 CC genotype in the gene encoding Monocyte differentiation antigen CD- 14
      (CD- 14);
      or one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of these
      polymorphisms.
13. A method according to claim 12 wherein all polymorphisms of the group are
    analysed.
14. A method according to any one of claims I to 5 wherein when the disease is OCOPD,
    the protective polymorphisms analysed may be selected from one or more of the
    group consisting of:
      -765 CC or CG in the promoter of the gene encoding COX2;
      -251 AA in the promoter of the gene encoding interleukin-8 (IL-8);
      Lys 420 Thr AA in the gene encoding VDBP;
      Glu 416 Asp TT or TG in the gene encoding VDBP;
      exon 3 T/C RR in the gene encoding microsomal epoxide hydrolase (MEH);
      Arg 312 Gln AG or GG in the gene encoding SOD3;
      MS or SS in the gene encoding aIAT;
      Asp 299 Gly AG or GG in the gene encoding toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4);
      Gln 27 Glu CC in the gene encoding ADRB2;
      -518 AA in the gene encoding IL-11;
      Asp 298 Glu TT in the gene encoding NOS3; or
      one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of these
      polymorphisms.
15. A method according to claim 14 wherein all polymorphisms of the group are
    analysed.

                                            113
16. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, 14, or 15 wherein when the disease
    is OCOPD, the susceptibility polymorphisms analysed are selected from one or more
    of the group consisting of:
      -765 GG in the promoter of the gene encoding COX2;
      105 AA in the gene encoding IL-18;
      -133 CC in the promoter of the gene encoding IL-18;
      -675 5G5G in the promoter of the gene encoding PAI-1;
      Lys 420 Thr CC in the gene encoding VDBP;
      Glu 416 Asp GG in the gene encoding VDBP;
      Ile 105 Val GG in the gene encoding GSTP1;
      Arg 312 Gln AA in the gene encoding SOD3;
      -1055 TT in the promoter of the gene encoding IL-13;
      3' 1237 Tt or tt in the gene encoding alAT;
      -1607 2G2G in the promoter of the gene encoding MMP1; or
      one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more of these
      polymorphisms.
17. A method according to claim 16 wherein all polymorphisms of the group are
    analysed.
18. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein when the disease is lung
    cancer, the protective polymorphisms analysed may be selected from one or more of
    the group consisting of:
      the Asp 298 Glu TT genotype in the gene encoding NOS3;
      the Arg 312 Gln CG or GG genotype in the gene encoding SOD3;
      the Asn 357 Ser AG or GG genotype in the gene encoding MMP 12;
      the 105 AC or CC genotype in the gene encoding IL- 18;
      the -133 CG or GG genotype in the gene encoding IL-18;
      the -765 CC or CG genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding COX2;
      the -221 TT genotype in the gene encoding Mucin 5AC (MUC5AC);
      the intron 1 C/T TT genotype in the gene encoding Arginase 1 (Arg1);
      the Leu252Val GG genotype in the gene encoding Insulin-like growth factor II
      receptor (IGF2R);

                                           114
      the -1082 GG genotype in the gene encoding Interleukin 10 (IL-10);
      the -251 AA genotype in the gene encoding Interleukin 8 (IL-8);
      the Arg 399 Gln AA genotype in the X-ray repair complementing defective in
      Chinese hamster 1 (XRCC1) gene;
      the A870G GG genotype in the gene encoding cyclin D (CCND 1);
      the -751 GG genotype in the promoter of the xeroderma pigmentosum
      complementation group D (XPD) gene ;
      the Ile 462 Val AG or GG genotype in the gene encoding cytochrome P450 lA1
      (CYP1A1);
      the Ser 326 Cys GG genotype in the gene encoding 8-Oxoguanine DNA glycolase
      (OGG1);
      the Phe 257 Ser CC genotype in the gene encoding REV 1;
      or one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with any one or more of
      these polymorphisms.
19. A method according to claim 18 wherein all polymorphisms of the group are
    analysed.
20. A method according to any one of claims I to 5, 18 or 19 wherein when the disease is
    lung cancer, the susceptibility polymorphisms analysed are selected from one or more
    of the group consisting of:
      the -786 TT genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding NOS3;
      the Ala 15 Thr GG genotype in the gene encoding anti-chymotrypsin (ACT);
      the 105 AA genotype in the gene encoding IL-18;
      the -133 CC genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding IL-18;
      the 874 AA genotype in the gene encoding IFNy;
      the -765 GG genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding COX2;
      the -447 CC or GC genotype in the gene encoding Connective tissue growth factor
      (CTGF); and
      the +161 AA or AG genotype in the gene encoding MBL2.
      the -511 GG genotype in the gene encoding IL-1B;
      the A-670G AA genotype in the gene encoding FAS (Apo-1/CD95);
      the Arg 197 Gln GG genotype in the gene encoding N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2);

                                            115
     the Ile462 Val AA genotype in the gene encoding CYP1AI;
     the 1019 G/C Pst I CC or CG genotype in the gene encoding cytochrome P450 2E1
      (CYP2E1);
     the C/T Rsa I TT or TC genotype in the gene encoding CYP2E 1;
     the GSTM null genotype in the gene encoding GSTM;
     the -1607 2G/2G genotype in the promoter of the gene encoding MMP 1;
     the Gln 185 Glu CC genotype in the gene encoding Nibrin (NBS 1);
     the Asp 148 Glu GG genotype in the gene encoding Apex nuclease (APE 1);
      or one or more polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with any one or more of
     these polymorphisms.
21. A method according to claim 18 wherein all polymorphisms of the group are
    analysed.
22. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 21 wherein each protective
    polymorphism is assigned a value of -1 and each susceptibility polymorphism is
    assigned a value of +1.
23. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 21 wherein each protective
    polymorphism is assigned a value of +1 and each susceptibility polymorphism is
    assigned a value of -1.
24. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 23 wherein the subject is or has been a
    smoker.
25. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 24 wherein the method comprises an
    analysis of one or more risk factors, including one or more epidemiological risk
    factors, associated with the risk of developing said disease.
26. A method of determining a subject's risk of developing a disease, said method
    comprising:
         obtaining the result of one or more analyses of a sample from said subject to
    determine the presence or absence of protective polymorphisms and the presence or
    absence    of susceptibility    polymorphisms,    and   wherein said protective   and
    susceptibility polymorphisms are associated with said disease;
         assigning a positive score for each protective polymorphism and a negative score
    for each susceptibility polymorphism or vice versa;

                                             116
         calculating a net score for said subject, said net score representing the balance
    between the combined value of the protective polymorphisms and the combined
    value of the susceptibility polymorphisms present in the subject sample;
         wherein a net protective score is predictive of a reduced risk of developing said
    disease and a net susceptibility score is predictive of an increased risk of
    developingsaid disease.
27. A method of prophylactic or therapeutic intervention in relation to a subject having a
    net susceptibility score for a disease as determined by a method according to any one
    of claims 1 to 26, wherein said method includes the steps of communicating to said
    subject said net susceptibility score, and advising on changes to the subject's lifestyle
    that could reduce the risk of developing said disease.
28. A method of treatment of a subject to decrease to the risk of developing a disease
    through alteration of the net score for said subject as determined by a method as
    defined above, wherein said method of treatment comprises:
         reversing, genotypically or phenotypically, the presence and/or functional effect
    of one or more susceptibility polymorphisms associated with said disease; and/or
         replicating and/or mimicking, genotypically or phenotypically, the presence
    and/or functional effect of one or more protective polymorphisms associated with
    said disease.
29. A kit for assessing a subject's risk of developing a disease, said kit comprising a
    means of analysing a sample from said subject for the presence or absence of one or
    more protective polymorphisms and one or more susceptibility polymorphisms in
    accordance with a method of any one of claims 1 to 28.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                        <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2720><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2718><U+2717><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+271D><U+2724><U+2722><U+2718><U+2717><U+2724><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2722><U+2725><U+2722><U+271E><U+2718><U+2726>
                      <U+2727><U+2723><U+2605><U+2717><U+271A><U+2729> <U+272A><U+2723><U+272B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271E>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+272C><U+2718><U+271E><U+272D><U+2723><U+2726><U+271D> <U+2723><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2717><U+2730><U+2731><U+2716><U+271D><U+2722><U+271D> <U+2723><U+272E> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2731><U+2716><U+2725><U+2723><U+2719><U+2733><U+272D><U+2722><U+271D><U+2725><U+271D> <U+2730><U+2717><U+2726> <U+261E><U+271D><U+2718><U+271D> <U+2711><U+272D><U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+2723><U+272E>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2734><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+260E> <U+2714><U+2715>   <U+270C><U+2735> <U+2701><U+2714><U+2702><U+2701><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+260E> <U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714> <U+2737><U+2714> <U+2737><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+260E> <U+2714><U+2715>   <U+270C><U+2735> <U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+260E> <U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714> <U+2737><U+2714><U+2704><U+2737><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2738><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2734><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2739><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271E><U+2718><U+2717><U+271E><U+270F><U+2717> <U+273A><U+2718><U+2719><U+271D><U+2722><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2734><U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724>                                <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A>                                <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A>                                <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724>                                <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>
                                                     <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714>
                                                    <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A>                     <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                                    <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
                                                    <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>                                    <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730>                                 <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                                    <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724>                                  <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739>
                                                    <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718>

                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A>                           <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730>                          <U+260E><U+2736>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2724>                       <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E>                    <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+2724>                      <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A>                              <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                              <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2738>

                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2734>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724>                      <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E>                          <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E>                         <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E>                       <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2704>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730>                          <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2736>
                                           <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2739>

                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2736>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E>                       <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730>                      <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E>                     <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                     <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701><U+2734>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                    <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701><U+2701>
                                         <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2704>

                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E>                            <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2724>                          <U+2702><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2724><U+2730>                         <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E>                       <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730>                      <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                    <U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                                 <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2736>

                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E>                     <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724>                             <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                            <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E>                       <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                     <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738>
                                             <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2714>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738><U+260E>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E><U+260E>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2702>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2739><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739><U+2734>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2734>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739><U+2704>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2701>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2739><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                                  <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704><U+2736>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724>                                 <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2738>

                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E>                       <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2736><U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724>                       <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2736><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A>                       <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2736><U+2734>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736>
                                        <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2739>

                                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E>                    <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2736><U+2738>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>                           <U+260E><U+2739>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2736><U+2739>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E>                         <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E>                         <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2736><U+2736>
              <U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724>                     <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724>                           <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                            <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2704>

                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>                      <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A>                        <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714><U+2734>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E>                      <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714><U+2701>
              <U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E>                    <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714><U+2738>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730>                    <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714><U+2739>
                                       <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2736>

                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714><U+2739>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E>                    <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730>                      <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2714><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714><U+2736>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724>                     <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724>                      <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724>                     <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2702>
                                        <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714>

                                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730>                         <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2734>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724>                        <U+260E><U+2736>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2730>                     <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271A><U+271E>                    <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724>                     <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                           <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702><U+260E>

                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                     <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>                            <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                           <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E>                          <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2724>                       <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>
                                              <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2702>

                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730>                         <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E>                       <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2738>
              <U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730>                     <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730>                    <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730>                           <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2736>
                                             <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2734>

                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E>                    <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724>                       <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2734><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2734><U+2734>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                      <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2734><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2734><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                       <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2701>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2734>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A>                                <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2734><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2734><U+2738>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724>                             <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2734><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2734><U+2739>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724>                             <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2734><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2734><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2734><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2734><U+2736>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724>                       <U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271E>                             <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+260E>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724>                     <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2738>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2738>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E> <U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E> <U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E> <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E> <U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E> <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2739>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E> <U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E> <U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E> <U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E> <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E> <U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E> <U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E> <U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E> <U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E> <U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271A>                  <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E> <U+2704>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2704>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E> <U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E> <U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2738><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2738><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2738><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>                                    <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+2734>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2736>

                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2738><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A>                        <U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724>                      <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2738><U+2738>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2738><U+2739>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2738><U+2704>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730>                    <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                       <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734><U+2714>

                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2738><U+2736>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2730>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2739><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A>                           <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2739><U+260E>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724>                      <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2739><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E>                          <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2739><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E>                         <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2739><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E>                       <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
                                          <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734><U+260E>

                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2739><U+2738>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724>                          <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2739><U+2739>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                         <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2739><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730>                        <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2739><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E>                       <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>
                                          <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734><U+2702>

                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                       <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                      <U+2702><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730>                      <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2734>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A> <U+271E>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E>                      <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2724>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                          <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734><U+2734>

                                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2738>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271E>                     <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2739>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271E>                    <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724>                            <U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                           <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E>                      <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736><U+260E>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                    <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2702>
                                            <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734><U+2701>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A>                              <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                              <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730>                              <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271E>                            <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736><U+2738>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2739>
                                                  <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E> <U+2724>                  <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734><U+2738>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2736>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734><U+2739>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+260E><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2701>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734><U+2704>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724>                <U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A>                   <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A>                   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>                   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A>                   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A>                   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                                  <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734><U+2736>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271A>                  <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2738>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2714>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A>                     <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A>                     <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271A>                  <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734><U+260E>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701><U+260E>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A>                                  <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734><U+2738>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724>                                 <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2702>

                                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734><U+2739>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E>                         <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E>                        <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+2724>                     <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E>                    <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A>                         <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724>                        <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2734>
                                            <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2734>

                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2734>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724>                         <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2730>                       <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730>                     <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2738>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730>                    <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2739>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A>                            <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2704>
                                             <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2701>

                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724>                           <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2736>
              <U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724>                      <U+2702><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702> <U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702> <U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730>                     <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702> <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702> <U+260E>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>                     <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702> <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702> <U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730>                    <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702> <U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702> <U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724>                            <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702> <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                             <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701>

                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702> <U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724>                        <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>                         <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702> <U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702> <U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>                        <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702> <U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702> <U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E>                      <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702> <U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702> <U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702> <U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702> <U+2736>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738><U+2714>
                                          <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2738>

                                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2738><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2738><U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A>                          <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2738><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730>                         <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2738><U+2734>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A>                        <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2738><U+2701>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724>                       <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738>
                                           <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2739>

                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730>                       <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2738><U+2738>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E>                      <U+2702><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2738><U+2739>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2730>                       <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2738><U+2704>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271E>                      <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2738><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2738><U+2736>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271E><U+2724>                     <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2739><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E>                    <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                             <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2704>

                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2739><U+260E>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>                             <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2739><U+2702>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730>                            <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2739><U+2734>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E>                           <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2739><U+2701>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724>                        <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                    <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2739><U+2738>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2730>                        <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739><U+2739>
                                              <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2736>

                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2739><U+2739>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271A><U+271E>                       <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2739><U+2704>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E>                    <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2739><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2739><U+2736>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                           <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730>                     <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E>                    <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2702>
                                              <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2714>

                                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A>                         <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A>                         <U+260E><U+2736>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724>                     <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2738>
              <U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724>                         <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2739>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2724>                    <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                            <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+260E>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2724>                           <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2736>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2730><U+271E>                           <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724>                         <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2736><U+260E>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                               <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2736><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2736><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736><U+2701>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2702>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2736><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2736><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736><U+2736>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2734>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724>                     <U+2702><U+2736>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2714><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2714><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2714><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2714><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730> <U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2714><U+2738>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2714><U+2739>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2714><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2724><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>                                  <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+260E>
                                                   <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718>

                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E>                     <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+260E><U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A>                     <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+2738>
                                      <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2738>

                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                       <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724>                      <U+260E><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A>                       <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                      <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A>                     <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                    <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
                                        <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2739>

                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730>                      <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730> <U+2730>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730>                      <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271E>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2702><U+2738>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>                         <U+260E><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>                        <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702><U+2704>
                                          <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2704>

                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730>                    <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730>                    <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724>                    <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2730><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+271A><U+271E>                    <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2734><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271E>                    <U+260E><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2734><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2734><U+2734>
                                       <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2736>

                                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2730><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271E>                     <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2734><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2734><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2730><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2730>                     <U+2702><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2734>
              <U+271E><U+271A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2730><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2730><U+271A><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2730> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2730>                    <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734><U+2734><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>   <U+273B><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+272F><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2730><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2715>   <U+2720><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+272D><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2734><U+2738>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2730> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724>                        <U+2702><U+2714>
                                            <U+2732><U+2730><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2738><U+2714>

