                                          ABSTRACT
        Stable liquid formulations of bendamustine, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
thereof, and polar aprotic solvents, are described.

                                                -1
                     LIQUID FORMULATIONS OF BENDAMUSTINE
TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention relates to liquid formulations of bendamustine, and the
pharmaceutical salts thereof.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        Bendamustine,      (4-{5-[bis(2-chloroethyl)amino]-   1-methyl-2-benzimidazolyl}butyric
acid
                                     CI
                                                              0
                                                                   OH
                                              CNN
                                                    N
                                           Bendamustine
is an atypical structure with a benzimidazole ring, which structure includes an active nitrogen
mustard. Bendamustine was initially synthesized in 1963 in the German Democratic Republic
and was available from 1971 to 1992 in that location under the name Cytostasan®. Since that
time, it has been marketed in Germany under the tradename Ribomustin®. It is currently
available for use in the United States under the tradename Treanda® (Cephalon, Inc., Frazer,
PA). It has been widely used to treat chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Hodgkin's disease, non
Hodgkin's lymphoma, multiple myeloma, and breast cancer.
        Like other nitrogen mustards, bendamustine hydrolyzes in aqueous solution, with the
major degradant being the primary alcohol HPi (See U.S. Application No. 11/330,868, the
entirety of which is incorporated herein):
                                     OH
                                                              0
                                                                   OH
                             C>I        N           N
                                                    N
        In light of its instability in aqueous solution, bendamustine is currently supplied as a
lyophilized powder for injection.         Just prior to its infusion, the medical practitioner
reconstitutes the powder with Sterile Water for Injection. Reconstitution should yield a clear,
colorless to pale yellow solution and the powder should completely dissolve in about 5

                                                -2
minutes. If particulate matter is observed, the reconstituted product should not be used and
should be discarded. The reconstituted product is then transferred to a 0.9% Sodium Chloride
Injection infusion bag within 30 minutes of reconstitution. This admixture should be a clear
and colorless to slightly yellow solution. If the admixture comprises particulate matter or is
discolored, it should be discarded and a fresh sample prepared.
        The reconstitution of the bendamustine lyophilized powder is time consuming and
cumbersome. Moreover, lyophilization of solids on a commercial scale requires specialized
equipment and incurs significant expense. As such, formulations of bendamustine that do not
require lyophilization and/or reconstitution are needed.
         Solutions of bendamustine hydrochloride in anhydrous propylene glycol, prepared
under an inert gas atmosphere, have been reported (GDR Patent 159289). It was reported that
analysis of these solutions using thin-layer chromatography, eluting with butanol/acetic
acid/water (4:1:5) and detection with Dragendorff reagent and UV (360 nm) did not suggest
any decomposition.       Curiously, however, commercial development of propylene glycol
formulations have heretofore not been reported.          Thus, improved liquid formulations of
bendamustine are still needed.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention is directed to liquid pharmaceutical formulations comprising
bendamustine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof, and a polar aprotic
solvent.     Certain preferred embodiments include liquid pharmaceutical formulations
comprising bendamustine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof, a polar
aprotic solvent, and a non-aqueous polar protic solvent. Methods of making and using the
formulations of the present invention are also described, as are methods of treating cancer
using the claimed formulations.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Figure 1 is a graph of a stability analysis of bendamustine in various solvents at 25'C.
        Figure 2 is a graph of a stability analysis of bendamustine in various solvents at 5'C.
        Figure 3 is a graph of bendamustine purity, over time, in 99% propylene glycol, at 5'C
and at 25'C.
        Figure 4 shows the mean + standard deviation concentration-versus-time profiles of
bendamustine in male Cynomolgus monkeys (N=4) administered single 3 mg/kg bolus
intravenous doses of bendamustine hydrochloride in 3 different formulations.

                                                -3
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        Stable, liquid formulations of bendamustine have been discovered and are reported
herein.
        Experiments to produce commercially viable propylene glycol preparations have been
performed. Unfortunately, the results described in GDR Patent 159289 were not reproducible.
Solutions of bendamustine in 99% propylene glycol degraded to non-bendamustine products
over a time equivalent to commercial storage.         Two of the impurities were identified as
propylene glycol esters of bendamustine.        As such, a 100% propylene glycol commercial
formulation of bendamustine is not feasible for pharmaceutical purposes.
        It has been determined that pharmaceutically acceptable liquid formulations of
bendamustine,     and the    pharmaceutically     acceptable  salts  thereof, in particular    the
hydrochloride salt, can be prepared by combining bendamustine, or the pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, with a polar aprotic solvent or mixture of polar aprotic solvents. Polar,
aprotic solvents are known in the art and include, for example, 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, 1,3
dimethyl-2-imidazolidinone, dimethylacetamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, acetone, tetrahydrofuran,
1,4-dioxane, acetonitrile, dimethyl formamide, propylene carbonate. See also, e.g., Florence
Mottu, et al. Organic solvents for pharmaceuticalparenteralsand embolic liquids: A review
of toxicity data, PDA J. Pharma. Sci. & Tech. vol 54, no.6, 456-469 (Nov.-Dec. 2000).
Particularly preferred polar aprotic solvents include dimethylacetamide, dimethyl sulfoxide,
and mixtures thereof.
        Without wishing to be held to any particular theory, it is believed that polar, aprotic
solvents are sufficiently non-nucleophilic towards bendamustine such that polar aprotic
solvent-bendamustine adducts do not form over the course of typical commercial storage
conditions.   Typical commercial storage conditions include time periods of, for example,
about 30 days, about 90 days, about 180 days, and about 365 days (about 1 month, about 3
months, about 6 months, and about 1 year).          Typical commercial storage conditions also
include temperatures of about 23'C (ambient room temperature) and refrigerated temperatures
below ambient room temperature, for example, about 50 C. Preferably, the liquid formulations
of the present invention are stored at refrigerated temperatures.
        It has also been discovered that stable formulations of bendamustine can be obtained
by mixing a polar aprotic solvent, or a mixture of polar aprotic solvents, with a non-aqueous
polar protic solvent or mixture of nonaqueous polar protic solvents.             Pharmaceutically
acceptable nonaqueous polar protic solvents are known in the art and include alkyl alcohols,

                                              -4
for example,     ethanol,  ethylene glycol, propylene      glycol, butylene  glycol, glycerin,
polysorbates, for example TWEEN 20, TWEEN 40, and TWEEN 80, and cyclodextrins (such
as  hydroxypropyl-p-cyclodextrin),    polyalkylene   glycols, such   as polyethylene     glycol,
polypropylene glycol, and polybutylene glycol, and primary amides such as niacinamide.
        Such formulations will typically comprise 90% or less, by volume of the formulation,
of the nonaqueous polar protic solvent. In other preferred embodiments, formulations will
comprise between about 20% and about 85%, by volume of the formulation, of the
nonaqueous polar protic solvent.     In still other embodiments, formulations will comprise
between about 30% and about 70%, by volume of the formulation, of the nonaqueous polar
protic solvent. In most preferred embodiments, formulations will comprise about 80%, about
67% or about 34%, by volume of the formulation, of the nonaqueous polar protic solvent.
        Alternatively, formulations of the present invention will comprise 10 moles per liter,
or less, of the nonaqueous polar protic solvent.      Preferably, formulations of the present
invention will comprise between about 4 moles per liter to about 9.5 moles per liter, of the
nonaqueous polar protic solvent. In certain embodiments, formulations will comprise about
9.1 moles per liter of the nonaqueous polar protic solvent.            In other embodiments,
formulations will comprise about 4.6 moles per liter, of the nonaqueous polar protic solvent.
        While not wishing to be held to any particular theory, it is believed that while
nonaqueous polar protic solvents are of sufficient nucleophilicity to form potentially
undesirable polar protic solvent-bendamustine adducts, such adducts will not form during
typical commercial storage if the concentration of the polar protic solvent is kept within the
scope of the present invention.
        Liquid formulations of the present invention are stable over the course of a typical
commercial storage period. As used herein, "stable" is defined as no more than about a 10%
loss of bendamustine under typical commercial storage conditions. Preferably, formulations
of the present inventions will have no more than about a 10% loss of bendamustine, more
preferably, no more than about a 5% loss of bendamustine, under typical commercial storage
conditions.
        Bendamustine converts to non-bendamustine products (i.e., "degrades") upon exposure
to certain nucleophiles, for example, water and alkyene glycols such as propylene glycol.
Exposure of bendamustine to water can produce "HP 1," which is undesirable.

                                                -5
                           HO
                                N                        0
                                  COH
                                                                    (HP1)
Another undesirable compound that bendamustine can convert to over time is "BM1 dimer."
                                        1-0
         110                                   NN              0
                                                                     OH.
                             N     O
                             CN                       N
                                                                         (BM1 dimer)
Still another undesirable compound that bendamustine can convert to over time is "DCE."
                                                       0
                                                            OH
                                N              N
                                               N
                                                                  (DCE)
Upon exposure to an alkylene glycol, for example, propylene glycol, esters of bendamustine
can form, e.g., PG-i and PG-2.
                                            OH
                                0    0)
                                                                           0   0/
                      ~N                                        N                    OH
             r    -"I   NN
               Ci
                         PG-i                                     PG-2
        In preferred embodiments of the present invention, analysis of formulations of the
present invention will exhibit 1.50% or less of DCE, as determined by HPLC analysis, after
about 1 year (about 365 days) at about 5'C. More preferably, the formulations will exhibit
1.0% or less of DCE, as determined by HPLC analysis, after about 1 year (about 365 days) at
about 5'C. Even more preferably, the formulations will exhibit 0. 5 % or less of DCE, as

                                              -6
determined by HPLC analysis, after about 1 year (about 365 days) at about 5'C.             Most
preferably, the formulations will exhibit about 0.1% or less of DCE, as determined by HPLC
analysis, after about 1 year (about 365 days) at about 5'C.
        In other embodiments of the present invention, analysis of the formulations will
exhibit about 0.4% or less of HP 1, as determined by HPLC analysis, after about 1 year (about
365 days) at about 5'C. Preferably, the formulations will exhibit about 0.10% or less of HP1,
as determined by HPLC analysis, after about 1 year (about 365 days) at about 5'C.
        In certain other embodiments of the present invention, analysis of the formulations will
exhibit about 0.70% or less of BM1 dimer, as determined by HPLC analysis, after about 1
year (about 365 days) at about 5'C. Preferably, the formulations will exhibit about 0.30% or
less of dimer, as determined by HPLC analysis, after about 1 year (about 365 days) at about
5'C. In most preferred embodiments, the formulations will exhibit about 0.10% or less of
BM1 dimer, as determined by HPLC analysis, after about 1 year (about 365 days) at about
50C.
        In those embodiments of the present invention comprising alkylene glycol as the
nonaqueous polar protic solvent, analysis of those formulations will exhibit 1.5% or less of
alkylene glycol esters of bendamustine, as determined by HPLC analysis, after about 1 year
(about 365 days) at about 5 0 C. For example, in those embodiments comprising propylene
glycol, analysis of those formulations will exhibit 1.5% or less of propylene glycol esters PG
1 and PG-2, as determined by HPLC analysis, after about 1 year (about 365 days) at about
50C.
        Analysis of the liquid formulations of the present invention can be performed using
techniques known in the art, including, for example, HPLC, gas chromatography, and NMR.
After exposure to typical commercial storage conditions, analysis of the formulations of the
present invention will indicate that the formulation contains no less than about 90% of the
amount of bendamustine present prior to exposure to the storage conditions.         Preferably,
analysis will indicate that the formulation contains no less than about 95% of the amount of
bendamustine present prior to exposure to the storage conditions.
        In preferred embodiments of the present invention, analysis of the formulations of the
present invention will indicate that the formulation contains no less than about 90% of the
amount of bendamustine present prior to exposure to storage conditions that include
temperatures of about 50 C and time periods of about 30 days (about 1 month) to about 365
days (about 1 year). Preferably, analysis of the formulations of the present invention will

                                              -7
indicate that the formulation contains no less than about 90% of the amount of bendamustine
present prior to exposure to storage conditions that include temperatures of about 5'C and
time periods of about 30 days (about 1 month), about 90 days (about 3 months), and about 180
days (about 6 months). Preferably, analysis will indicate that the formulation contains no less
than about 95% of the amount of bendamustine present prior to exposure to storage conditions
that include temperatures of about 5oC and time periods of about 30 days (about 1 month) to
about 365 days (about 1 year). More preferably, analysis will indicate that the formulation
contains no less than about 95% of the amount of bendamustine present prior to exposure to
storage conditions that include temperatures of about 5'C and time periods of about 30 days
(about 1 month), about 90 days (about 3 months), and about 180 days (about 6 months).
        Formulations of the present invention can comprise pharmaceutically                useful
concentrations of bendamustine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.             Useful
concentrations include concentrations ranging from about 5 mg/mL to about 200 mg/mL.
Preferably, the concentration of bendamustine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
ranges from about 5 mg/mL to about 120 mg/mL. Preferred concentrations include about 5
mg/mL, about 10 mg/mL, about 20 mg/mL, about 30 mg/mL, about 40 mg/mL, about 50
mg/mL, about 60 mg/mL, about 100 mg/mL and about 200 mg/mL of bendamustine, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Greater than 200 mg/ml of bendamustine, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for example, greater than about 300 mg/mL, are also
within the scope of the present invention, as are saturated solutions of bendamustine, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        As used herein, the term "about" is defined as ± 10%, preferably ± 5 %.
        In addition to comprising a polar aprotic solvent, or mixture of polar aprotic solvents,
and optionally, a nonaqueous polar protic solvent, or mixture of solvents, formulations of the
present invention may further comprise other pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients are known in the art and include, for example,
antioxidants (e.g., tocopherol (Vitamin E), ascorbic acid, methyl paraben, butylhydroxyanisole
(BHA), butylhydroxytoluene (BHT), and propyl gallate), surfactants, (e.g., polysorbates
(TWEEN 20, TWEEN 40, TWEEN 80)), lipids (e.g., dimyristoylphophatidylcholine (DMPC),
Dimyristoylphosphatidylglycerol     (DMPG), distearoylphophatidylglycerol         (DSPG), fillers
(e.g., mannitol), organic acids (e.g., citric acid, lactic acid, benzoic acid), hydrophilic
polymers (e.g., polyethylene glycols (PEG 300, PEG 400), complexing agents (e.g.,
niacinamide, nicotinic acid, creatine, cyclodextrins), and preservatives (e.g., benzyl alcohol).

                                                -8
        Also within the scope of the invention are methods of treating diseases, such as, for
example, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma,
multiple myeloma, or breast cancer, with a pharmaceutical formulation of the present
invention. These methods comprise administering to the patient a therapeutically effective
amount of a preparation prepared from a pharmaceutical formulation of the present invention.
The term "therapeutically effective amount," as used herein, refers to the amount determined
to be required to produce the physiological effect intended and associated with a given drug,
as measured according to established pharmacokinetic methods and techniques, for the given
administration route.     Appropriate and specific therapeutically effective amounts can be
readily determined by the attending diagnostician, as one skilled in the art, by the use of
conventional techniques. The effective dose will vary depending upon a number of factors,
including the type and extent of progression of the disease or disorder, the overall health status
of the particular patient, the relative biological efficacy of the compound selected, the
formulation of the active agent with appropriate excipients, and the route of administration.
        The liquid formulations of bendamustine described herein are intended to be
administered via injection, for example, they may be administered                  subcutaneously,
intracutaneously,     intravenously,     intramuscularly,     intra-articularly,   intrasynovially,
intrasternally, intrathecally, intralesionally, intracranially or via infusion.       In a typical
preparation, the volume of the liquid formulation of the present invention needed for the
required dose can be aseptically withdrawn and transferred to an infusion bag of 0.9% Sodium
Chloride (or other pharmaceutically acceptable intravenous solution) for injection.           After
transfer, the contents of the infusion bag are thoroughly mixed.                 Administration by
intravenous infusion is typically provided over a time period of from about 30 to about 60
minutes.      Previously   described    lyophilized  formulations     of bendamustine      required
reconstitution of the lyophilized bendamustine         prior to mixture with the acceptable
intravenous solution before infusion.
        It is envisioned that the pharmaceutical formulations and preparations of the present
invention can be administered in combination with one or more anti-neoplastic agents where
the anti-neoplastic    agent is given prior to, concurrently with, or subsequent to the
administration of the formulation or preparation of the present invention. Pharmaceutically
acceptable anti-neoplastic agents are known in the art. Preferred anti-neoplastic agents are
those disclosed in co-pending U.S. Application No. 11/330,868, filed January 12, 2006, the
entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

                                               -9
EXAMPLES
Solubility and stability of Bendamustine hydrochloridein polar aproticsolvents
         Equilibrium solubility was determined for solvents including 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidone
(NMP),     1,3-dimethyl-2-imidazolidinone     (DMI),    dimethylacetamide   (DMA),   dimethyl
sulfoxide   (DMSO),     acetone,  tetrahydrofuran    (THF),  dimethylformamide    (DMF), and
propylene carbonate (PC). The solubility of bendamustine hydrochloride was also determined
for two solutions, 25 mg/mL niacinamide in DMA and 66% DMA/ 34% propylene glycol
(PG).    A saturated solution of bendamustine hydrochloride was made in triplicate for each
solvent or solution and mixed on a Lab-Quake with gentle mixing and low shear for 3 days at
room temperature. A sample of each suspension was put into a microcentrifuge tube and spun
at 10,000 rpm for 5 min on an Eppendorf microcentrifuge. The supernatant was removed and
put into a clean vial. Each solution was diluted with sample solvent: 50% NMP/ 50% 0.1%
trifluoroacetic acid in water. A reverse phase method for bendamustine hydrochloride was
used to determine the concentration of each sample calculated from a standard. Analysis was
performed within 18 hours of preparation of the diluted sample. The solubilities are listed in
Table I below. Each value is an average of three samples.
                                             Table I
               Sample*                       % Purity                  Assay (mg/mL)
                 NMP                            99.1                        104.0
                 DMI                            98.5                         75.8
                DMSO                            99.5                       311.7
                 DMF                            99.6                         71.8
         66% DMA/34%PG                          99.5                        110.1
                DMA                             99.4                         56.2
                  PC                            98.7                          7.7
         Niacinamide/DMA                        99.2                         61.3
* acetone and THF have no measurable solubility of bendamustine.
         The three replicates were combined and mixed well and then pipetted into amber
HPLC vials and placed in stability chambers at 25*C and 5*C. All the samples were clear and
colorless except for the DMI sample which was clear and yellow. The 25*C stability leveled
out from about 180 days (about 6 months) to about 365 days (about 12 months, about 1 year).
At 5*C, all solutions had a purity greater than 90%. The analysis of stability samples can be
seen in the graphs of Figures 1 and 2.

                                                 - 10
                                                Table II
Impurity profile of certain liquidformulations of Bendamustine HC after storage at 5 'Cfor
about 12 months
                           DCE            HP1              BM1          PG-i         PG-2
     Formulation         (Area %)       (Area %)           dimer      (Area %)
                                           krea          (Area 0)                  (Area %)
Niacinamide/DMA            1.40           0.08              0.06        ND            ND
        DMA                1.10           0.08              0.05        ND            ND
66%DMA/34%PG               0.12           0.08              0.06        1.09         0.27
        DMF                0.07           0.11              0.07        ND            ND
        NMP                0.90           0.10              ND          ND            ND
       DMSO                0.04           0.38              0.70        ND            ND
ND = not detected
         Analysis conducted using reverse phase HPLC with 50% NMP/ 50% 0.1%
trifluoroacetic acid in water as the running solvent.
         As can be seen in Figure 3, bendamustine (BM1) in 99% propylene glycol degrades
significantly when stored at 25'C for less than 100 days. After storage at 5oC for about 365
days, the purity of the bendamustine is about 80% or less.
PharmacokineticStudy of Formulationsin Monkey
         4 fasted (18 to 23 hr), drug-naive male cynomolgus monkeys consecutively received
single 3-mg/kg bolus intravenous doses of bendamustine hydrochloride prepared from 3
different    formulations.       The    formulations        evaluated  in   the  study   included:
1) TREANDA lyophilizedd mixture of bendamustine hydrochloride and mannitol; 25 mg
(bendamustine hydrochloride) vials; 2) a 66% dimethylacetamide (DMA)/34% propylene
glycol (PG) (w/w) solution (90 mg (bendamustine hydrochloride)/mL stock); and 3) a 100%
DMA solution (45 mg (bendamustine hydrochloride)/mL stock). The lyophilized powder and
stock solutions of bendamustine hydrochloride were constituted or diluted with 0.9% saline,
as appropriate, to give solutions of 3 mg bendamustine hydrochloride/ml, just prior to dose
administration. The resulting solutions were administered as a bolus via a saphenous vein at a
fixed volume of 1.0 mL/kg. There was at least a 7-day washout period separating successive
doses.    During all 3 phases of dosing, blood samples for pharmacokinetic profiling of
bendamustine and its 2 active circulating metabolites, y-hydroxybendamustine (M3) and
N-des-methylbendamustine (M4), were collected via a femoral vein immediately prior to
dosing    and at preselected timepoints         through     12 hr postdose.     Concentrations  of
bendamustine, M3 and M4 in plasma samples were determined using a validated high-

                                                - 11
performance liquid chromatography method with tandem mass spectrometric detection (LC
MS/MS) as follows.        Bendamustine and the M3 and M4 metabolites are extracted from
plasma by protein precipitation using acetonitrile. After the extraction, the aliquoted sample is
acidified with 1% formic acid and bendamustine with an added carbon in the carboxylic acid
chain is added as an internal standard. The samples are evaporated to dryness and the residue
is reconstituted with an acetonitrile/water/formic acid/ammonium formate mixture.                 The
sample is injected into an HPLC system with LC/MS/MS detection using a Phenomenex
Synergi Max-RP column with an acetonitrile/water/formic acid/ammonium formate mobile
phase. Pharmacokinetic analyses were performed using noncompartmental methods.
        After single bolus intravenous doses of bendamustine                hydrochloride to male
cynomolgus monkeys, the shapes of the mean plasma concentration-versus-time profiles of
bendamustine were similar in each of the 3 formulations (See Figure 4).             In all cases, the
highest observed plasma levels of bendamustine were achieved at 0.083 hr postdose (ie, the
first sampling time after dose administration) and subsequent removal of the compound from
plasma occurred in a bi-phasic manner that was characterized by an initial rapid distribution
phase and a somewhat slower terminal phase of drug elimination. The harmonic mean              ti/2 of
the terminal phase was approximately 0.6 hr for each formulation (See Table III).
        In addition to the similarities in the shapes of the mean plasma concentration-versus
time profiles, the 3 formulations were also similar with respect to bendamustine systemic
exposure (i.e., Cmax and AUC).      Specifically, the respective mean values of Cmax and AUCo-.
for bendamustine were 6037 ng/mL and 2314 ng-hr/mL for the TREANDA formulation, 7380
ng/mL and 2854 ng-hr/mL for the 66% DMA/34% PG formulation and 6209 ng/mL and 2372
ng-hr/mL for the 100% DMA formulation. Plasma clearance (CL) and volume of distribution
(Vz and Vss) for bendamustine were also comparable between each of the 3 formulations (See
Table III). In Table III, tmax, hr is given as Median [range],    ti/2, hr is given as the Harmonic
Mean, Xz, hr- 1 is the slope of line in elimination phase used to calculate half-life, and MRTo..
is the mean residence time.
        In summary, the pharmacokinetic profiles of bendamustine, M3 and M4 for the 2
liquid formulations of bendamustine hydrochloride were qualitatively and quantitatively
similar to those obtained for the TREANDA formulation after single bolus intravenous doses
to monkeys.

                                               -  12
        Table III shows the mean +/- Standard Deviation pharmacokinetic parameters of
bendamustine in male Cynomolgus monkeys (N=4) administered single 3mg/kg bolus
intravenous doses of bendamustine hydrochloride in the three different formulations.
                                              Table III
                                                     Formulation
                                                 66% DMA/34% PG               100% DMA
      Parameter             TREANDA
      Co,ng/miL             8664    3841             10716    2033            8956    1965
     Cimx,ng/niL            6037    2456             7380     1170            6209    1300
        t.mx, hr        0.083 [0.083 for all]    0.083 [0.083 for all]    0.083 [0.083 for all]
   AUCo-t, ng-hr/niL         2313    800              2853 ±398                2371 ±535
  AUCo-, ng-hr/niL           2314    800              2854    398             2372     535
        Xz, hr-1           1.220    0.111            1.295 ±0.108            1.092    0.219
         t 12, hr               0.57                      0.54                    0.63
     CL, L/hr/kg             1.27   0.40              0.96   0.14              1.18   0.27
       V, L/kg               1.04   0.36              0.74   0.05              1.17   0.44
       Vss, L/kg             0.34   0.11              0.26   0.05              0.30   0.04
      MRTo., hr              0.26   0.02              0.27   0.02              0.26   0.03
In-Use Studies of Formulations
        Admixtures in 0.9% sodium chloride (500 mL bag) were prepared at a high dose (360
mg bendamustine hydrochloride) and purity was determined over time at room temperature
for up to 8 hours using HPLC, using a Zorbax Bonus-RP column with a gradient from 93%
0.1% trifluoroacetic acid in water (Mobil Phase A)/ 7% 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid in
acetonitrile (Mobile Phase B) to 10% Mobil Phase A/90% Mobil Phase B.
        The       66% DMA/34%      PG formulation had          a concentration    of bendamustine
hydrochloride of 90 mg/g, so 4 mL was injected into a 500 mL bag of saline, inverted 10
times and sampled at room temperature for 8 hours. After 8 hours the purity was 95.4%. This
is within the label requirements for dosing Treanda.              This formulation of the present
invention could be used for up to 8 hours at room temperature.                By way of contrast,
reconstituted Treanda can only be stored at room temperature for up to 3 hours.

                                              - 13
        The 100% DMA formulation had a concentration of 45 mg/g, so 8 mL was injected
into a 500 mL bag of saline, inverted 10 times, and sampled at room temperature for 4 hours.
After 4 hours the purity was 97.9%. This formulation of the present invention could be used
for more than 4 hours at room temperature.
        The comparative Treanda admixture purity was 95.0% after 4 hours at 25'C.
        As those skilled in the art will appreciate, numerous modifications and variations of
the present invention are possible in view of the above teachings. It is therefore understood
that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention can be practiced otherwise than as
specifically described herein, and the scope of the invention is intended to encompass all such
variations.
        Comprises/comprising       and grammatical   variations thereof when used in this
specification are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or
components or groups thereof, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more
other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.

                                            - 14
THE CLAIMS:
1      An anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of bendamustine, or a
       pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, comprising:
   bendamustine at a concentration of about 5 mg/mL to about 200 mg/mL;
   a nonaqueous polar protic solvent comprising an alcohol, a polyalkylene glycol, a primary
       amide, or a mixture thereof, wherein the formulation comprises 90% or less, by volume
       of the formulation, of the alcohol, polyalkylene glycol, primary amide, or mixture
       thereof;
   and 1.5% or less of PG-1, PG-2, or a combination thereof
                                         04
                  PG-I                                           PG-2
   as determined by HPLC analysis, wherein the analysis is performed after about 1 year of
       storage.
2.     The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of claim 1, comprising
       between about 20% and about 85%, by volume of the formulation, of the alcohol,
       polyalkylene glycol, primary amide, or mixture thereof.
3.     The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of claim 1, comprising
       between about 30% and about 70%, by volume of the formulation, of the alcohol,
       polyalkylene glycol, primary aide, or mixture thereof

                                          - 15
4.  The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of any one of the preceding
    claims, wherein the nonaqueous polar protic solvent comprises an alcohol.
5.  The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of claim 4, wherein the
    alcohol is propylene glycol.
6.  The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of any one of the preceding
    claims, wherein the nonaqueous polar protic solvent comprises a polyalkylene glycol.
7.  The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of claim 6, wherein the
    polyalkylene glycol is polyethylene glycol.
8.  The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of any one of the preceding
    claims, wherein the analysis is performed after about 1 year of storage at about 5 'C.
9.  The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of any one of the preceding
    claims, comprising at least about 90% of the amount of bendamustine present prior to
    storage of about 1 year, as determined by HPLC analysis.
10. The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of claim 9, wherein the
    storage is at about 5 0 C.
11. The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of any one of the preceding
    claims, comprising at least about 90% of the amount of bendamustine present prior to
    storage of about 180 days, as determined by HPLC analysis.

                                           - 16
12.   The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of claim 11, wherein the
      storage is at about 5 0 C.
13.   The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of any one of the preceding
      claims, comprising at least about 90% of the amount of bendamustine present prior to
      storage of about 90 days, as determined by HPLC analysis.
14.   The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of claim 13, wherein the
      storage is at about 5 0 C.
15.   The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of any one of the preceding
      claims, comprising at least about 90% of the amount of bendamustine present prior to
      storage of about 30 days, as determined by HPLC analysis.
16.   The anhydrous, sterile, liquid, pharmaceutical formulation of claim 15, wherein the
      storage is at about 5 0 C.
                                   CEPHALON, INC.
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P34286AU04

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
