ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
The present invention provides aqueous polymer compositions containing one or more,
or, preferably, two or more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether markers having a formula
(Ph3C)mAr(OR)n, wherein Ph is a phenyl group, Ar is an aromatic ring containing group
having from six to twenty carbon atoms, R is a   C1-C18  alkyl group, m is an integer of
from 1 to 2, and n is an integer of from 1 to 4. The markers are readily detectable, such
as by mass spectroscopy, upon solvent extraction and separation from the aqueous
polymer compositions, or from dried or cured coatings, film or layers thereof.

NOVEL MARKERS FOR AQUEOUS COMPOSITIONS
[0001]     The present invention relates to triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds
useful in a method for marking aqueous compositions, such as for use in coating
compositions or traffic paint.
[0002]     Waterborne quick drying traffic paint is a popular and low cost method of
improving roadway safety. Government agencies responsible for roadways frequently
specify use of selected polymer grades at minimum levels in paints sold to them.
However, the same agencies struggle to confirm whether formulators have actually
provided the specified polymer grade in the required amounts. Complete analytical
take-apart is lengthy and expensive and is, thus, not practical. Some existing marker
systems for such paints are quick and simple, but use detection techniques such as
color or fluorescence, that do not work in all tints or which may suffer from interference
from other raw materials or naturally occurring products in the paints. Some known
detection methods require a developing solution, which add complexity. Several
detection methods are not quantitative or sensitive to small amounts of marked
materials; these can detect only a higher level presence but not quantity. Several
markers carry unwanted side effects such as toxicity and/or require a high dosage level.
Other markers do not have a broad range of temperature or pH stability and can be
removed from the marked compositions in process or in use. Hydrophilic markers, for
example, could be leached or washed from dry compositions or dried films limiting their
use in identifying dry samples, such as coatings or paints that have been applied and
cured. There remains a need for marker compounds for aqueous polymer compositions
which are difficult to remove by drying the compositions, as a result of weather or as a
result of repeated washing or wetting of the end use product, such as a coating or traffic
marking.
[0003]     World Intellectual Property Organization publication no. WO 2012177987A1,
to Dow Chemical, discloses the use of triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether molecules as fuel
markers which are detectable in fuels, including being detectable to some extent after
combination of or adulteration of the fuels with impurities.
[0004]     The present inventors have endeavored to find markers useful for marking
aqueous polymer compositions, such as coatings, without altering the appearance or
                                               1

performance of the compositions while being detectable in the wet composition and
dried or coatings made therefrom.
STATEMENT OF INVENTION
[0005]     In accordance with the present invention, aqueous compositions, such as
compositions useful for making coatings, or, preferably, traffic markings, comprise (i)
one or more aqueous polymers, such as vinyl or acrylic emulsion polymers or
polyurethane dispersions and (ii) 2 ppm to 100 ppm or, preferably, from 5 ppm to 50
ppm of one or more, or, preferably, at least two triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether
compounds having a formula (Ph3C)mAr(OR)n, wherein Ph is a phenyl group, wherein Ar
is an aromatic ring containing group having from six to twenty carbon atoms, or,
preferably, from six to twelve carbon atoms, such as a phenyl or methylphenyl group, R
is a C-C18 alkyl group or, preferably, a   CrC12   alkyl group, or, more preferably, a CrC8
alkyl group, m is an integer of from 1 to 2, and n is an integer of from 1 to 4, or,
preferably, from 1 to 2.
[0006]     In accordance with the present invention, the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, such as vinyl or acrylic emulsion
polymers or polyurethane dispersions have any of: (ii) two triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl
ether compounds in a defined ratio, which can be any ratio of 0.01:1 to 1:01, or,
preferably, from 0.1:1 to 1:0.1, or (ii) three triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds
in a defined or set ratio, which can be any ratio such that the marker having the highest
concentration is present in no more than 100 times the concentration of the marker
having the lowest concentration, for example, from 0.01:0.01:1.0 to 1.0:0.01:1.0.
[0007]     In accordance with the present invention, the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, such as vinyl or acrylic emulsion
polymers, polyurethane dispersions or aqueous solution polymers, such as polyamines,
polymeric polyacids or alkali soluble polymers, and (ii) the one or more triphenylmethyl
alkyl aryl ether compounds have a pH of from 3 to 12 or, preferably, from 7 to 11.
[0008]     In accordance with the present invention, in the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and (ii) the one or more
                                                2

triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds, the (i) one or more aqueous polymer is
preferably a vinyl or acrylic emulsion polymer, such as an acrylic emulsion polymer, or,
more preferably, an acrylic emulsion polymer comprising butyl acrylate in polymerized
form.
[0009]      In accordance with the present invention, in the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and (ii) the one or more
triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds, the (i) one or more aqueous polymer is a
vinyl or acrylic emulsion polymer which is an anionically stabilized emulsion polymer
and, wherein the composition further comprises one or more polyamine and one or
more volatile base, such as ammonia, an alkyl amine, such as ethyl amine amine
alcohols, or, preferably, ammonia.
[0010]      In accordance with the present invention, aqueous compositions comprise (ii)
the one or more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds, one or more anionically
stabilized emulsion polymer as the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and one or more
polyamine and one or more volatile base, the amount of the one or more polyamine
ranges from 0.1 to 2 wt.% or, preferably, from 0.25 to 1.5 wt.% solids based on total
polymer solids.
[0011]      In accordance with the present invention, the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and (ii) the one or more
triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds further comprise one or more pigments,
extenders, and/or fillers. The one or more pigments, extenders and/or fillers preferably
comprise, a pigment, such as a white or opacifier pigment, preferably, titanium dioxide,
combined with one or more fillers and/or extenders, preferably calcium carbonate,
calcium oxide, silica, silicates, and combinations thereof. As used herein, the term
"filler" and the term "extender" are used interchangeably.
[0012]      In accordance with the present invention, the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and (ii) the one or more
triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds further comprise one or more high boiling
coalescent chosen from diacid esters, phosphate esters, isobutyrate esters, alkyl esters
of fatty acids, fatty ethers, fatty glycerides, fatty acid amides, alkoxylates of fatty acids,
                                                 3

addition (co)polymer coalescents, ethylene and propylene glycol ethers having a normal
boiling point of 150 to 3000C, and mixtures thereof, preferably, isobutyrate esters. The
amount of the coalescent may range from 4.0 wt.% to 30 wt.%, based on total polymer
solids or, preferably, from 5 to 20 wt.%.
[0013]     In another aspect of the present invention, methods of detecting a marker of
(ii) one or more or, preferably, two or more, triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds
having a formula (Ph3 C)mAr(OR)n, wherein Ph is a phenyl group, wherein Ar is an
aromatic ring containing group having from six to twenty carbon atoms, or, preferably,
from six to twelve carbon atoms, such as a phenyl or methylphenyl group, R is a C1-C18
alkyl group or, preferably, a C1-C12 alkyl group, or, more preferably, a C1-C  8 alkyl group,
m is an integer of from 1 to 2, and n is an integer of from 1 to 4, or, preferably, from 1 to
2 in a composition of (i) one or more aqueous polymers, such as vinyl or acrylic
emulsion polymers, polyurethane dispersions, aqueous solution polymers, such as
polyamines, polymeric polyacids or alkali soluble polymers, or a dried or cured film,
coating or layer formed therefrom, which methods comprise: extracting the one or more
triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds from the aqueous composition or the dried
or cured film, coating or layer formed therefrom, using a solvent, such as xylene or
toluene, to form a marker extract, separating from the marker extract the (ii) one or
more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds by chromatographic separation, such
as by gas chromatography (GC) or liquid chromatography (LC), and detecting the (ii)
one or more or, preferably, two or more C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers in the marker
extract, such as by mass spectroscopy (MS).
[0014]     In the methods of the present invention, the extraction of the dried or cured
film, coating or layer formed from the aqueous composition when the dried or cured film,
coating or layer was formed on a substrate comprises separating or removing the film
coating or layer on a substrate from the substrate, such as by scraping the film, coating
or layer or with a wire brush, followed by grinding or milling the resulting solids, and then
extracting to form the marker extract and detecting the marker.
[0015]     In the methods of the present invention, the extraction of the dried or cured
film, or layer formed from the aqueous composition when the dried or cured film, or
layer is freestanding comprises grinding or milling the dried or cured film coating or layer
                                              4

solids, and then extracting to form the marker extract and detecting the marker.
[0016]     Unless otherwise indicated, conditions of temperature and pressure are room
temperature and standard pressure, also referred to herein as "ambient conditions".
[0017]     In the instant specification, percentages are weight percentages (wt.%) and
temperatures are in    OC, unless specified otherwise. All boiling points mentioned herein
are measured at atmospheric pressure (760 mm/Hg). Concentrations are expressed
either in parts per million ("ppm") or parts per billion ("ppb") calculated on a
weight/weight basis, or on a weight/volume basis (mg/L); preferably on a weight/volume
basis.
[0018]    The singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context
clearly dictates otherwise.
[0019]    All phrases comprising parentheses denote either or both of the included
parenthetical matter and its absence. For example, the phrase "(meth)acrylate"
includes, in the alternative, acrylate and methacrylate.
[0020]    As used herein, the term "acid monomer or anionic monomer" means
ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer in either the acid or anionic form (COO
[0021]    As used herein, the term "alkali soluble polymer" means an aqueous polymer
which is soluble at a pH of from 8 to 14 such as acrylic and vinyl polymers having from
10 to 50 wt.%, based on the total weight of monomers used to make the polymer, of an
ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid or its salt.
[0022]    As used herein, the term "alkyl" group is a substituted or unsubstituted
saturated hydrocarbyl group having from one to twenty-two carbon atoms in a linear,
branched or cyclic arrangement. Substitution on alkyl groups of one or more OH or
alkoxy groups is permitted; other groups may be permitted when specified elsewhere
herein. Preferably, alkyl groups are unsubstituted. Preferably, alkyl groups are linear or
branched.
                                               5

[0023]    As used herein, the term "alkenyl" group is an alkyl group having at least one
carbon-carbon double bond. Preferably, alkenyl groups have one or two carbon-carbon
double bonds, preferably one.
[0024]    As used herein, the term "aqueous" means water or water mixed with up to 16
wt.%, or up to 6 wt.%, or, preferably, up to 0.5 wt.% of a water miscible solvent which is
volatile under ambient conditions, such as a lower alkanol.
[0025]    As used herein, the term "capillary column" is a column suitable for gas
chromatography having an inner diameter from 75 to 750 pm, preferably, from 100 to
550 pm, such as from 150 to 350 pm and a length of 5 to 100 m, preferably 7 to 60 m.
[0026]    As used herein, unless otherwise indicated, the term "emulsion polymer" refers to
a polymer made by aqueous emulsion polymerization.
[0027]    As used herein, the term "ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer"
refers to acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, beta-acryloxypropionic acid, ethacrylic acid, a
chloroacrylic acid, a-vinylacrylic acid, crotonic acid, a-phenylacrylic acid, cinnamic acid,
chlorocinnamic acid, p-styrylacrylic acid, maleic acid, itaconic acid, citraconic acid, and
salts thereof.
[0028]    As used herein, the term "(meth)acrylate" means acrylate, methacrylate, and
mixtures thereof and the term "(meth)acrylic" used herein means acrylic, methacrylic, and
mixtures thereof.
[0029]    As used herein, the term "phenyl" group is a substituent derived from phenol
or another aromatic hydrocarbon compound. A phenyl group has a total of six ring
atoms, unless otherwise specified, and has one ring.
[0030]    As used herein, the term "polymeric polyacid" refers to polymers and
copolymers of ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomers or salts thereof, the
copolymers comprising, in polymerized form, at least 80 wt.% or, preferably, at least 90
wt.% of the ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer or salt, based on the
total weight of monomers used to make the polymer.
                                               6

[0031]     As used herein, the term "total polymer solids" or "polymer solids" means the
total solids of the one or more vinyl or acrylic emulsion polymers and the polyurethanes
or polyurethane prepolymers in the aqueous compositions.
[0032]     As used herein, the term "road" includes any indoor or outdoor solid surface that
is or may be constantly or intermittently traveled on by pedestrians, moving vehicles,
tractors, or aircraft. Some non-limiting examples of a "road" include highways, streets,
driveways, sidewalks, runways, taxiing areas, tarmac areas, and parking lots.
[0033]     As used herein, the phrase "wt.%" stands for weight percent.
[0034]     The present invention provides a way for users, makers and sellers of
aqueous polymer compositions, for example, traffic paint, and coatings, to quickly and
with a high level of sensitivity detect the source and identity of polymer compositions
they buy, resell, use or find. The users, makers and sellers can verify the source and
identity of aqueous polymer compositions regardless of when or how they obtain them.
For government agencies and others, the present invention enables quality verification.
For other makers, users and sellers, the present invention provides a way to determine
what aqueous polymer compositions third parties and customers are using. Detection
can be performed using, for example, GC/MS. The compositions that can be effectively
tested include both aqueous and dry or cured compositions, such as already applied
paints or coatings or already formed films, layers or moldings. The low concentration of
the compounds as markers (down to 2 ppm) enables discrete marking of the aqueous
polymer compositions without introducing odor or otherwise impacting the performance
or appearance of final products, such as coatings, made with those compositions.
[0035]     The present invention provides a method for marking an aqueous polymer
composition, the method comprising adding (ii) the one or more or, preferably, two or
more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds having a formula (Ph3 C)mAr(OR)n,
wherein Ph is a phenyl group, wherein Ar is an aromatic ring containing group having
from six to twenty carbon atoms, or, preferably, from six to twelve carbon atoms, such
as a phenyl or methylphenyl group, R is a C1-C18 alkyl group or, preferably, a C1-C12
alkyl group, or, more preferably, a C1-C8 alkyl group, m is an integer of from 1 to 2, and
n is an integer of from 1 to 4, or, preferably, from 1 to 2 to an aqueous polymer
                                               7

composition. Suitable aqueous polymer compositions can be, for example binders,
coating additives, polymer dispersions (i.e. HYPOD etc.), and other aqueous emulsion
or dispersion polymers.
[0036]      The (ii) triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds of the present invention
can simply be added to an aqueous polymer composition while it is being formed, such
as in polymerization, or afterword, as in formulation.
[0037]      The aqueous compositions comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers,
and (ii) the one or more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds may optionally
comprise conventional additives, such as surfactants, wetting agents, plasticizers,
defoamers, rheology modifiers, antioxidants, colorants, matting agents, pigments or
colorants.
[0038]      The one or more (ii) triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds may be placed
in the aqueous polymer composition directly, or alternatively, placed in an additives
package containing other materials, e.g. pigments, fillers or colorants, dispersants,
surfactants, defoamers, rheology modifiers, etc., and the additives package is added to
the aqueous polymer composition.
[0039]      In the aqueous polymer compositions of the present invention for use in
making traffic markings, suitable concentrations of fillers, extenders and/or pigments
may range from 50 to 90 wt.% or, preferably, from 60 to 85 wt.%, of total solids of
polymer, coalescent, filler, extender and pigment.
[0040]      The aqueous polymer compositions of the present invention may not comprise
fillers, extenders and/or pigments and may be a polymeric binder, such as an emulsion
polymer or polyurethane dispersion, for use in clearcoats and custom formulations.
[0041]      Suitable vinyl or acrylic polymers for use in the present invention may be
prepared from a wide range of suitable addition polymerizable ethylenically unsaturated
monomers, such as, for example, nonionic ethylenically unsaturated monomers, including
arylenes, such as styrene, vinyl toluene, and a-methyl styrene; butadiene; olefins; vinyl
esters; vinyl halides; vinylidene chloride; (meth)acrylonitrile; C-C40 alkyl esters of
                                                 8

(meth)acrylic acid; for example, methyl (meth)acrylate, ethyl (meth)acrylate, n-butyl
(meth)acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl (meth)acrylate, and other (meth)acrylates.
[0042]     The vinyl or acrylic polymers of the present invention may be formed by
conventional emulsion polymerization of addition polymerizable monomers, such as in the
presence of a thermal or redox initiator and one or more surfactants.
[0043]     The anionically stabilized emulsion polymers of the present invention are
emulsion polymers which comprise one or more anionic surfactants or which comprise, in
copolymerized form, an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer or salt thereof,
for example, acrylic acid, or both.
[0044]     To limit water sensitivity the anionically stabilized emulsion polymers of the
present invention comprise 18 wt.% or less, or, preferably, 4 wt.% or less, or, preferably, 2
wt.% or less of the ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer or salt in
copolymerized form, based on the total weight of all monomers .
[0045]     To limit water sensitivity the anionically stabilized emulsion polymers of the
present invention may comprise 4 wt.% or less or, preferably, 2 wt.% or less of the one or
more anionic surfactants.
Preferably, the triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds (ii) are represented by
formula (I)
              OOR
                     OR
wherein R is C1-C18 alkyl, preferably C2-C18 alkyl, preferably C2-C16 alkyl, preferably C2
C12 alkyl, preferably C3-C12 alkyl, preferably C3-C10 alkyl. An example of a preferred
marker is 3-(sec-butyl)-4-(decyloxy)phenyl)methanetriyl)tribenzene.
Preferably, the compounds of the present invention are represented by formula (II)
                                                9

          RO          OR   -     (I
wherein R is C1-C18 alkyl, preferably C2-C18 alkyl, preferably C2-C16 alkyl, preferably C2
C12 alkyl, preferably C3-C12 alkyl, preferably C3-C10 alkyl.
The triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds (ii) of this invention may be prepared by
methods known in the art, such as, for example, alkylation of phenols or
polyhydroxyaromatics with trityl halide or alcohol, followed by alkylation with organic
halides in the presence of base. For example, tritylated phenolic ethers may be
prepared according to the following reaction scheme, wherein M is one or two and N is
1 to 4.
               x   + Ar      OH      H                          Ar    OH)
                        Phenol
                                                             M
   Trityl
   Alcohol/halide                                      Tritylated Phenol
   X=OH, halo
                     Ar   OH )N+RX       base,                     Ar   OR )N
                 M                                              M
           Tritylated Phenol                Tritylated Phenol Ether
[0046]     The (ii) the one or more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compound markers of
the present invention are UV and heat stable, and provide little or no volatility in ambient
use conditions, and at temperatures of up to 80 OC at atmospheric pressure.
                                               10

[0047]       In using (ii) the one or more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds of the
present invention as markers, preferably the minimum amount of each compound
added to an aqueous polymer composition to be marked is at least 2 ppm, or, preferably
at least 5 ppm, or, preferably, at least 10 ppm. Preferably, the maximum amount of
each marker is 50 ppm, or, preferably 30 ppm or less, or, more preferably 25 ppm or
less. Preferably, the maximum total amount of marker compounds is 100 ppm, or,
preferably, 50 ppm, or, more preferably, 30 ppm.
[0048]       Preferably, the (ii) the one or more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compounds
of the present invention are not detectible by visual means in the marked aqueous
polymer composition, i.e., it is not possible to determine by unaided visual observation
of color or other characteristics that it contains a marker compound. Preferably, a
marker compound is one that does not occur normally in the aqueous polymer
composition to which it is added, either as a constituent of the polymer itself, or as an
additive used therein.
[0049]       Preferably, more than one marker compound is present. Use of multiple
marker compounds facilitates incorporation into the aqueous polymer composition of
coded information that may be used to identify the origin and other characteristics of the
aqueous polymer composition. The code comprises the identities and relative amounts,
e.g., fixed integer ratios, of the marker compounds. One, two, three or more marker
compounds may be used to form the code. Marker compounds according to the
present invention may be combined with other markers.
[0050]       In accordance with the compositions of the present invention, two or more of
(ii) the triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compound markers could be used at various
predetermined ratios. Combinations of markers can be used as digital marking
systems, with the ratios of amounts forming a code for the marked product. Additional
compounds useful as markers would be desirable to maximize the available codes.
Thus, the present invention could be used broadly to provide end-users or regulators
verification that a given aqueous polymer composition was used in a given project.
[0051]       Preferably, the marker compounds are detected by at least partially separating
them from constituents of the aqueous polymer composition using a chromatographic
                                                 11

technique, e.g., gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, thin-layer
chromatography, paper chromatography, adsorption chromatography, affinity
chromatography, capillary electrophoresis, ion exchange and molecular exclusion
chromatography. Chromatography is followed by at least one of: (i) mass spectral
analysis, and (ii) spectral analysis, such as UV spectrophotometry. Identities of the
marker compounds preferably are determined by mass spectral analysis.
[0052]     Preferably, the compounds are at least partially separated from the marked
liquid using two-dimensional gas chromatography, preferably with different columns in
the two GC separations. Preferably, mass spectral analysis is used to detect the
marker compounds in the aqueous polymer composition without performing any
separation. Alternatively, marker compounds may be concentrated prior to analysis,
e.g., by drying the aqueous polymer composition.
[0053]     Further, and more preferably, a gas chromatographic method for detecting a
marker compound in an aqueous polymer composition comprises: (a) extracting the
marker from an aqueous polymer composition by solvent extraction with an organic
solvent, preferably, xylene, (b) injecting a sample of the extract into a first capillary
column which is an open tubular column, preferably, coated with a polysiloxane
stationary phase, and allowing the sample to flow through the first capillary column to
produce a first effluent stream; (b) allowing the first effluent stream to pass through a
detector and identifying a retention time range in the first effluent stream which includes
a retention time of the marker compound; (c) introducing only a portion of the first
effluent stream which is within the retention time range into a second capillary column
which is an open tubular column coated with either (i) an ionic sorbent or (ii) a
polyethylene glycol, and allowing said portion to flow through the second capillary
column to produce a second effluent stream; and (d) allowing the second effluent
stream to pass through a detector.
[0054]     Suitable detectors can be any one capable of detecting the marker; preferably
a flame ionization detector (FID), atomic emission detector, pulsed discharge helium
ionization detector, dielectric barrier detector, thermal conductivity detector, helium
ionization detector, mass selective detector (e.g., a mass spectrometer (MS));
preferably a FID or MS.
                                              12

[0055]      Preferably, when a mass spectrometer is used as a detector the column
diameter is no greater than 400 pm, preferably no greater than 350 pm, or, preferably
no greater than 330 pm. Preferably, capillary columns are made from polyimide-coated
fused silica glass or passivated metal.
[0056]      Preferably, the amount of aqueous polymer composition sample injected into
the gas chromatograph is from 0.2 to 5 pl, preferably from 0.5 to 3 pl, preferably from
0.8 to 2 pl. Preferably the injection is split such that the ratio of total injection to the
amount sent to the first column is from 25: 1 to 15:1, preferably about 20:1. Preferably,
the oven temperature for the first column initially is from 25 to 200 'C, preferably from
50 to 150    0C, preferably from 40 to 100 OC and then increases to a temperature from
300 to 450 OC, preferably from 325 to 425      OC, preferably from 350 to 400     OC.
Preferably, the oven temperature for the second column follows the same profile as that
for the first column. Preferably, the carrier gas (preferably helium) flow rate is from 0.2
to 5 mL/min, preferably from 0.5 to 4 mL/min, preferably from 0.5 to 2 mL/min. Those
skilled in the art will appreciate that the parameters mentioned above are interrelated
and are not critical individually, but they can be adjusted together to achieve optimum
separation of the desired compounds.
[0057]      Preferably, the ionic sorbent is an inorganic salt or a mixture of inorganic salts;
preferably sodium or potassium or barium salts or a mixture thereof; preferably sodium
sulfate, potassium sulfate, barium sulfate, chlorides of sodium, potassium or barium, or
a mixture thereof. Especially preferred ionic sorbents include sodium sulfate, potassium
sulfate, barium chloride, barium sulfate or a mixture thereof, preferably barium sulfate or
potassium sulfate.
[0058]      Preferably, the polyethylene glycol has a number average molecular weight
from 10,000 to 30,000, preferably from 15,000 to 25,000. An especially preferred
polyethylene glycol is CARBOWAX 20M. Preferably, when a mass spectrometer is
used as a detector, the second column is a polyethylene glycol column.
EXAMPLES:
Preparation of an aqueous polymer composition in a marked formulation:
                                                13

[0058]      A triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether compound (3-(sec-butyl)-4
(decyloxy)phenyl)methanetriyl)tribenzene) was dissolved in a diisobutyrate ester
plasticizer (Texanol T M plasticizer, Eastman Chemc., Kingsport, TN) at a 375 ppm
concentration. The 375 ppm solution was added to an acrylic emulsion polymer binder
(anionically stabilized BA/MMA emulsion copolymer, 50.5 wt.% solids) to yield a marker
concentration of 3.75 ppm, based on the total aqueous composition.
Extraction conditions:
[0059]      The formulation was extracted using xylene. 1 mL of marked formulation was
mixed with 10 mL of xylene in a 20-mL vial. The solution was shaken for 30 min. 1.5
mL the present invention of the solvent phase was then transferred to a centrifuge vial
and centrifuged at 35000 rpm for 20 min. The supernatant was transferred to an
autosampler vial for GC/MS analysis.
GC/MS conditions: A two-dimension GC system with mass selective detector was used
in examples, as described in Table 1, below.
Table 1: GC/MS Conditions
Instrument:           Agilent 7890 GC with 5975 Mass Selective Detector (MSD) with Extractor
                       Electron Impact ionization source
Column:                DB-35MS, 15-m x 0.25-mm ID, 0.25-pm film
Injector:              Injection volume: 3 pL
                       Solvent wash: 6 times pre-injection and 6 times post-injection with acetone
                       Sample washes: 3 times
                       Sample pump: 3 times
Inlet:                 Liner: Agilent Ultra-inert Splitless liner or equivalent
                      Temperature: 280 0C
                       Splitless injection
                       Carrier gas: helium
Oven Temperature       100 C (0 min), 200 C/min to 2800 C (10 min), then 200 C/min to 340 0C (5 min).
Programming:          Total run time: 27 min
MSD Parameters:       Transfer line temperature: 340 0C
                       El source temperature: 3500C
                       Quad temperature: 200 0C
                       EM offset: 106 V
                       SIM ion: m/z 532 (100 ms dwell time) and 455 (100 ms dwell time). Plot m/z 532
                       only.
                                                      14

   1. Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA.
[0060]    With xylene extraction, the inventive triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether
compounds marker was detected at 12% of the dosed concentration. Accordingly, the
marker can be consistently detected at different concentration levels with a limit of
detection of 2 ppm.
                                             15

We Claim:
    1. An aqueous composition comprising (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and (ii)
from 2 to 100 ppm of one or more compounds selected from a triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl
ethers having a formula (Ph3C)mAr(OR)n, wherein Ph is a phenyl group, Ar is an
aromatic ring containing group having from six to twenty carbon atoms, R is a C1-C18
alkyl group, m is an integer of from 1 to 2, and n is an integer of from 1 to 4.
    2. The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the (i) one or more aqueous
polymers is chosen from vinyl or acrylic emulsion polymers, polyurethane dispersions
and aqueous solution polymers.
    3. The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the amount of the (ii) one or more
compounds selected from a triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether having a formula
(Ph3C)mAr(OR)n ranges from 5 to 50 ppm. Ar is an aromatic ring containing group
having from six to twelve carbon atoms.
    4. The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the composition comprises (ii)
two compounds selected from a triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether having the formula
(Ph3C)mAr(OR)n in a defined ratio to one another.
    5. The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the (ii) one or
more compounds selected from a triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether that has a formula
(Ph3C)mAr(OR)n, wherein R is a C1-Cl2alkyl group.
    6. The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the (ii) one or
more compounds selected from a triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ether that has a formula
(Ph3C)mAr(OR)n, wherein n is an integer of from 1 to 2.
                                              16

    7. The composition as claimed in claim 1, having a pH of from 3 to 12.
    8. The composition as claimed in claim one, further comprising one or more
pigments, extenders and/or fillers.
    9. The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the (i) one or more aqueous
polymer is a vinyl or acrylic emulsion polymer which is an anionically stabilized emulsion
polymer and, wherein the composition further comprises one or more polyamine and
one or more volatile base.
    10. A method of detecting a marker of (ii) one or more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl
ether compounds having a formula (Ph3C)mAr(OR)n, wherein Ph is a phenyl group, Ar is
an aromatic ring containing group having from six to twenty carbon atoms, R is a      C1-C18
alkyl group, m is an integer of from 1 to 2, and n is an integer of from 1 to 4 in an
aqueous composition of (i) one or more aqueous polymers, or a dried or cured film,
coating or layer formed therefrom, the method comprising:
    extracting the one or more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ethers from the aqueous
composition or the dried or cured film, coating or layer formed therefrom using a solvent
to form a marker extract;
    separating from the marker extract the (ii) one or more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl
ethers by chromatographic separation; and,
    detecting the (ii) one or more triphenylmethyl alkyl aryl ethers in the marker extract.
                                              17

