                                               - 50
                                           ABSTRACT
  A respiratory assistance apparatus has a gases inlet configured to receive a supply of gases, a
  blower unit configured to generate a pressurised gases stream from the supply of gases; a
  humidification unit configured to heat and humidify the pressurised gases stream; and a gases
5 outlet for the heated and humidified gases stream. A flow path for the gases stream extends
  through the respiratory device from the gases inlet through the blower unit and
  humidification unit to the gases outlet. A sensor assembly is provided in the flow path before
  the humidification unit.    The sensor assembly has an ultrasound gas composition sensor
  system for sensing one or more gas concentrations within the gases stream.

         11119
    36                  56
                         54
                     60
        FIGURE 16
   56                       5
54             T1
       FPTflTTIPP 17

                                                 -1
                           RESPIRATORY ASSISTANCE APPARATUS
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Field of the Invention
 5         This invention relates to respiratory assistance apparatus that provides a stream of
   heated and humidified gases to a user for therapeutic purposes. In particular, although not
   exclusively, the respiratory assistance apparatus may provide respiratory assistance to patients
   or users who require a supply of heated and humidified gases for respiratory therapies such as
   respiratory humidification therapy, high-flow oxygen therapy, Positive Airway Pressure
10 (PAP) therapies, including CPAP therapy, Bi-PAP therapy, and OPAP therapy, and typically
   for the treatment of diseases such as Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA), snoring, or Chronic
   Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).
   Description of the Related Art
           Respiratory assistance devices or systems for providing a flow of humidified and
15 heated gases to a patient for therapeutic purposes are well known in the art. Systems for
   providing therapy of this type (for example respiratory humidification) typically have a
   structure where gases are delivered to a humidifier chamber from a gases source, such as a
   blower (also known as a compressor, an assisted breathing unit, a fan unit, a flow generator
   or a pressure generator). As the gases pass over the hot water, or through the heated and
20 humidified air in the humidifier chamber, they become saturated with water vapour. The
   heated and humidified gases are then delivered to a user or patient downstream from the
   humidifier chamber, via a gases conduit and a user interface.
           In one form, such respiratory assistance systems can be modular systems that
   comprise a humidifier unit and a blower unit that are separate (modular) items. The modules
25 are connected in series via connection conduits to allow gases to pass from the blower unit to
   the humidifier unit. For example, Figure 1 shows a schematic view of a user 1 receiving a
   stream of heated and humidified air from a modular respiratory assistance system.
   Pressurised air is provided from an assisted breathing unit or blower unit 2a via a connector
   conduit 10 to a humidifier chamber 4a. The stream of humidified, heated and pressurised air
30 exits the humidification chamber 4a via a user conduit 3, and is provided to the patient or
   user 1 via a user interface 5.

                                                  -2
           In an alternative form, the respiratory assistance systems can be integrated systems in
   which the blower unit and the humidifier unit are contained within the same housing. A
   typical integrated system consists of a main blower unit or assisted breathing unit which
   provides a pressurised gases flow, and a humidifier unit that mates with or is otherwise
 5 rigidly connected to the blower unit. For example, the humidifier unit is mated to the blower
   unit by slide-on or push connection, which ensures that the humidifier unit is rigidly
   connected to and held firmly in place on the main blower unit. Figure 2 shows a schematic
   view of the user 1 receiving heated and humidified air from an integrated respiratory
   assistance system 6. The system operates in the same manner as the modular system shown
10 in Figure 1, except the humidification chamber 4b has been integrated with the blower unit to
   form the integrated system 6.
           The user interface 5 shown in Figures 1 and 2 is a nasal mask, covering the nose of
   the user 1. However, it should be noted that in systems of these types, a mask that covers the
   mouth and nose, a full face mask, a nasal cannula, or any other suitable user interface could
15 be substituted for the nasal mask shown. A mouth-only interface or oral mask could also be
   used. Also, the patient or user end of the conduit can be connected to a tracheostomy fitting,
   or an endotracheal intubation.
           US 7,111,624 includes a detailed description of an integrated system. A 'slide-on'
   water chamber is connected to a blower unit in use. A variation of this design is a slide-on or
20 clip-on design where the chamber is enclosed inside a portion of the integrated unit in use.
   An example of this type of design is shown in WO 2004/112873, which describes a blower,
   or flow generator 50, and an associated humidifier 150.
           For these integrated systems, the most common mode of operation is as follows: air is
   drawn by the blower through an inlet into the casing which surrounds and encloses at least
25 the blower portion of the system.      The blower pressurises the air stream from the flow
   generator outlet and passes this into the humidifier chamber. The air stream is heated and
   humidified in the humidifier chamber, and exits the humidifier chamber via an outlet. A
   flexible hose or conduit is connected either directly or indirectly to the humidifier outlet, and
   the heated, humidified gases are passed to a user via the conduit.              This is shown
30 schematically in Figure 2.

                                                 -3
           In both modular and integrated systems, the gases provided by the blower unit are
   generally sourced from the surrounding atmosphere. However, some forms of these systems
   may be configured to allow a supplementary gas to be blended with the atmospheric air for
   particular therapies.   In such systems, a gases conduit supplying the supplemental gas is
 5 typically either connected directly to the humidifier chamber or elsewhere on the high
   pressure (flow outlet) side of the blower unit, or alternatively to the inlet side of the blower
   unit as described in WO 2007/004898. This type of respiratory assistance system is generally
   used where a patient or user requires oxygen therapy, with the oxygen being supplied from a
   central gases source. The oxygen from the gases source is blended with the atmospheric air
10 to increase the oxygen fraction before delivery to the patient. Such systems enable oxygen
   therapy to be combined with high flow humidification therapy for the treatment of diseases
   such as COPD. In such therapies, it is important that the oxygen fraction being delivered to
   the patient be known and controlled. Currently, the oxygen fraction being delivered to the
   patient is typically manually calculated or estimated based on a printed look-up table that sets
15 out various oxygen fractions that have been pre-calculated based on a range of oxygen flow
   rates supplied from the central gas source and a range of flow rates generated by the blower
   unit.
           In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
   external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
20 providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
   otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission that
   such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part
   of the common general knowledge in the art.
           It is an object of the present invention to provide a respiratory assistance apparatus
25 with an improved gas composition sensing capability, or to at least provide the public with a
   useful choice.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           In a first aspect, the present invention broadly consists in a respiratory assistance
   apparatus configured to provide a heated and humidified gases stream, comprising: a gases
30 inlet configured to receive a supply of gases; a blower unit configured to generate a
   pressurised gases stream from the supply of gases; a humidification unit configured to heat

                                                  -4
   and humidify the pressurised gases stream; a gases outlet for the heated and humidified gases
   stream; a flow path for the gases stream through the respiratory device from the gases inlet
   through the blower unit and humidification unit to the gases outlet; a sensor assembly
   provided in the flow path before the humidification unit, the sensor assembly comprising an
 5 ultrasound gas composition sensor system for sensing one or more gas concentrations within
   the gases stream.
           Preferably, the ultrasound gas composition sensor system may comprise a transmitter
   and receiver transducer pair that may be operable to transmit cross-flow acoustic pulses from
   the transmitter to the receiver through the gases stream for sensing the speed of sound in the
10 gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly.
           In one form, the transmitter and receiver transducer pair may be arranged such that the
   acoustic pulses traverse the gases stream in a cross-flow that is in a direction substantially
   perpendicular to the flow direction of the gases stream.
           In another form, the transmitter and receiver transducer pair may be arranged such
15 that the acoustic pulses traverse the gases stream in a cross-flow that is angled but not
   perpendicular with respect to the flow direction of the gases stream.
           In one form, the transmitter and receiver transducer pair may comprise a transducer
   that is configured as a transmitter and a transducer that is configured as a receiver for
   transmitting uni-directional acoustic pulses.
20         In another form, the transmitter and receiver transducer pair may comprise a pair of
   transmitter-receiver transducers that are configured for transmitting bi-directional acoustic
   pulses.
           In one form, the transmitter and receiver may be aligned with each other in relation to
   the flow direction of the gases stream and facing each other on opposite sides of the flow
25 path.
           In another form, the transmitter and receiver may be displaced from each other in the
   flow direction of the gases stream.
           Preferably, the acoustic pulses may have a beam path that is direct between the
   transmitter and receiver. Alternatively, the acoustic pulses may have a beam path that is
30 indirect between the transmitter and receiver and which undergoes one or more reflections.

                                                  -5
           In another form, the transmitter and receiver transducer pair may be in the form of a
   single transmitter-receiver that is configured to transmit cross-flow acoustic pulses and
   receive the echo return pulses.
           In another form, the ultrasound gas composition sensor system may comprise a
 5 transmitter and receiver transducer pair that are operable to transmit along-flow acoustic
   pulses from the transmitter to the receiver through the gases stream for sensing the speed of
   sound in the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly.
           Preferably, the respiratory assistance apparatus may further comprise a sensor control
   system that is operatively connected to the transmitter and receiver transducer pair of the
10 ultrasound gas composition sensor system and which is configured to operate the transducer
   pair to sense and generate a speed of sound signal indicative of the speed of sound through
   the gases stream.
           Preferably, the sensor control system is configured to generate one or more gas
   concentration signals indicative of the gas concentration within the gases stream based at
15 least on the signal indicative of the speed of sound though the gases stream.
           In one form, the sensor assembly may further comprise a temperature sensor that is
   configured to measure the temperature of the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor
   assembly and generate a representative temperature signal, and wherein the sensor control
   system is configured to generate one or more gas concentration signals indicative of the gas
20 concentration within the gases stream based on the speed of sound signal, and the
   temperature signal.
           In another form, the sensor assembly may further comprise a humidity sensor that is
   configured to measure the humidity of the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly
   and generate a representative humidity signal, and wherein the sensor control system is
25 configured to generate one or more gas concentration signals indicative of the gas
   concentration within the gases stream based on the speed of sound signal, and the humidity
   signal. By way of example, the humidity sensor may be a relative humidity sensor or an
   absolute humidity sensor.
           In another form, the sensor assembly may comprise both a temperature sensor and a
30 humidity sensor for measuring the temperature and humidity of the gases stream in the
   vicinity of the sensor assembly and generating respective representative temperature and

                                                  -6
   humidity signals, and wherein the sensor control system is configured to generate one or
   more gas concentration signals indicative of the gas concentration within the gases stream
   based on the speed of sound signal, temperature signal, and humidity signal.
           Preferably, the sensor control system may be configured to apply a temperature
 5 correction to the temperature signal to compensate for any predicted temperature sensing
   error created by heat within the respiratory device that affects the temperature sensor.
           Preferably, the sensor assembly may further comprise a flow rate sensor that is
   configured to sense the flow rate of the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly
   and generate a representative flow rate signal; and the system may further comprise: a motor
10 speed sensor being provided that is configured to sense the motor speed of the blower unit
   and generate a representative motor speed signal, and wherein the temperature correction is
   calculated by the sensor control system based at least on the flow rate signal and/or motor
   speed signal.
           In one form, the sensor control system may be configured to generate a gas
15 concentration signal representing the oxygen concentration in the gases stream.
           In another form, the sensor control system may be configured to generate a gas
   concentration signal representing the carbon dioxide concentration in the gases stream.
           Preferably, the sensor assembly may be releasably mounted within the flow path.
           Preferably, the flow path may be shaped or configured to promote stable flow of the
20 gases stream in at least one section or portion of the flow path.
           Preferably, the flow path may be shaped or configured to promote stable flow in a
   section or portion of the flow path containing the sensor assembly.
           Preferably, the flow path may comprise one or more flow directors at or toward the
   gases inlet. More preferably, each flow director may be in the form of an arcuate fin.
25         In one form, the flow path may comprise at least one spiral portion or section to
   promote stable flow of the gases stream. Preferably, the flow path may comprise an inlet
   section that extends between the gases inlet and the blower unit and the inlet section
   comprises at least one spiral portion.
           Preferably, the sensor assembly may be located in a spiral portion of the flow path.
30 More preferably, the spiral portion comprises one or more substantially straight sections, and
   the sensor assembly is located in one of the straight sections.

                                                   -7
            Preferably, the sensor assembly may comprise a sensor housing comprising a main
   body that is hollow and defined by peripheral walls that extend between a first open end and
   a second open end to thereby define a sensing passage in the main body between the walls
   through which the gases stream may flow in the direction of a flow axis extending between
 5 the first and second ends of the main body, and wherein the transmitter and receiver
   transducer pair are located on opposite walls or sides of the sensing passage.             More
   preferably, the sensor housing may comprise:            a main body comprising two spaced
   apart side walls, upper and lower walls extending between the side walls to define the sensing
   passage along the main body between its first and second ends; and a pair of transducer
10 mounting assemblies located on opposing walls of the main body, which are each configured
   to receive and retain a respective transducer of the transducer pair such that they are aligned,
   and face each other, across the sensing passage of the main body.
            Preferably, the blower unit may be operable to generate a gases stream at the gases
   outlet having a flow rate of up to 100 litres-per-minute.
15          In one form, the gases inlet may be configured to receive a supply of gases comprising
   a mixture of atmospheric air and pure oxygen from an oxygen supply. In another form, the
   gases inlet may be configured to receive a supply of gases comprising a mixture of
   atmospheric air and carbon dioxide from a carbon dioxide supply.
            Preferably, the flow path is in the bulk flow path of the apparatus.
20          In a second aspect, the present invention broadly consists in a sensor assembly for in
   line flow path sensing of a gases stream in a respiratory assistance apparatus comprising: a
   sensor housing comprising a main body that is hollow and defined by peripheral walls that
   extend between a first open end and a second open end, to thereby define a sensing passage in
   the main body between the walls, through which the gases stream may flow in the direction
25 of a flow axis extending between the first and second ends of the main body; an ultrasound
   gas composition sensor system mounted in the sensor housing for sensing one or more gas
   concentrations within the gases stream flowing in the sensing passage; a temperature sensor
   mounted in the sensor housing for sensing the temperature of the gases stream flowing in the
   sensing passage; and a flow rate sensor mounted in the sensor housing for sensing the flow
30 rate of the gases stream flowing in the sending passage.

                                                  -8
           Preferably, the sensor housing may be configured for releasable engagement into a
   complementary retaining aperture in the flow path of the respiratory assistance apparatus.
           Preferably, the ultrasound gas composition sensor system may comprise a transmitter
   and receiver transducer pair that are operable to transmit acoustic pulses from the transmitter
 5 to the receiver through the gases stream in a direction substantially perpendicular to the flow
   axis of the gases stream flowing through the sensing passage.
           Preferably, the transmitter and receiver transducer pair may be located on opposite
   walls or sides of the sensing passage.
           Preferably, the main body of the sensor housing may comprise two spaced-apart side
10 walls, and upper and lower walls that extend between the side walls to define the sensing
   passage along the main body between its first and second ends; and a pair of transducer
   mounting assemblies located on opposing walls of the main body, which are each configured
   to receive and retain a respective transducer of the transducer pair such that they are aligned,
   and face each other, across the sensing passage of the main body.
15         Preferably, the pair of transducer mounting assemblies may be located on opposite
   side walls of the main body, and wherein each transducer mounting assembly comprises a
   retaining cavity within which a respective transducer of the pair are received and retained.
           Preferably, each transducer mounting assembly may comprise a cylindrical base
   portion that extends from a respective side wall of the main body and at least one pair of
20 opposed clips that extend from the base portion, the base portion and clips collectively
   defining the retaining cavity.
           Preferably, each side wall of the main body may comprise a transducer aperture which
   is co-aligned with its associated transducer mounting assembly and through which the front
   operating face of the transducer may extend to access the sensing passage.
25         Preferably, the transducer mounting assemblies may be configured to locate their
   respective transducers such that the operating faces of the transducers are substantially flush
   with the inner surface of their respective wall of the main body of the sensor housing.
           The second aspect of the invention may have any one or more of the features
   mentioned in respect of the sensor assembly of the first aspect of the invention.
30         The phrase "stable flow" as used in this specification and claims means, unless the
   context suggests otherwise, a type of gases stream flow, whether laminar or turbulent, that

                                                    -9
   promotes or causes the properties or characteristics of the flow being measured or sensed to
   be substantially time-invariant for a given set of conditions at the scale the properties or
   characteristics are being measured or sensed.
            The phrases "cross-flow beam" or "cross-flow" as used in this specification and
 5 claims mean, unless the context suggests otherwise, an ultrasound pulse or beam that is
   transmitted in a beam path across or transversely to the main gases flow path direction or axis
   as opposed to along the main gases flow path direction. For example, a cross-flow beam may
   be transmitted across the gases flow path in a direction substantially perpendicular to the
   main gases flow path direction or axis, although other cross-flow angles are intended to be
10 covered by the term also.
            The phrases "along-flow beam" or "along-flow" as used in this specification and
   claims mean, unless the context suggests otherwise, an ultrasound pulse or beam that is
   transmitted in a beam path that is substantially aligned, whether parallel or coincident, with
   the main gases flow path direction or axis, whether transmitted in a direction that is with or
15 against the gases flow direction.
            The term "comprising" as used in this specification and claims means "consisting at
   least in part of'.     When interpreting each statement in this specification and claims that
   includes the term "comprising", features other than that or those prefaced by the term may
   also be present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprises" are to be interpreted in
20 the same manner.
   Number Ranges
            It is intended that reference to a range of numbers disclosed herein (for example, 1 to
    10) also incorporates reference to all rational numbers within that range (for example, 1, 1.1,
   2, 3, 3.9, 4, 5, 6, 6.5, 7, 8, 9 and 10) and also any range of rational numbers within that range
25 (for example, 2 to 8, 1.5 to 5.5 and 3.1 to 4.7) and, therefore, all sub-ranges of all ranges
   expressly disclosed herein are hereby expressly disclosed. These are only examples of what
   is specifically intended and all possible combinations of numerical values between the lowest
   value and the highest value enumerated are to be considered to be expressly stated in this
   application in a similar manner.
30          As used herein the term "and/or" means "and" or "or", or both.

                                                - 10
           As used herein "(s)" following a noun means the plural and/or singular forms of the
   noun.
           The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of which the
   following gives examples only.
 5 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described by way of example only and
   with reference to the drawings, in which:
           Figure 1 is a schematic view of a known form of respiratory assistance apparatus
   having a modular configuration blower unit connected to a humidifier unit;
10         Figure 2 is a schematic view of another known form of respiratory assistance
   apparatus in which the blower unit and humidifier unit are integrated into a single main
   housing;
           Figure 3 shows a perspective view of the main housing of a respiratory assistance
   apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
15         Figure 4 shows a side elevation view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure
   3;
           Figure 5 shows a front elevation view of the respiratory assistance apparatus from
   direction A in Figure 4;
           Figure 6 shows a rear elevation view of the respiratory assistance apparatus from
20 direction B of Figure 4;
           Figure 7 shows an underside view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure 3;
           Figure 8 shows a plan view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure 3;
           Figure 9 shows a perspective view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure 3
   with an upper part of the main housing removed and exposing the electronic control circuitry
25 and blower unit compartment;
           Figure 10 shows a perspective view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure 9
   with the electronic control circuitry, outer blower unit casing, and other components
   removed exposing the upper side of the inner blower casing for the motor and impeller;
           Figure 1OA shows a perspective view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure
30 3 with a lower part of the main housing and base compartment removed and exposing the
   underside of the main outer blower unit casing and inner blower casing;

                                               - 11
           Figure 11 shows a perspective view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure
   10 with the inner blower casing and humidification chamber inlet connector removed
   exposing the upper side of the main housing base compartment;
           Figure 12 shows a perspective view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure
 5 11 with the lower part of the main housing removed exposing the base compartment and
   humidifier unit compartment;
           Figure 13 shows a plan view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure 12;
           Figure 14 shows a rear end elevation view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of
   Figure 12 from direction C;
10         Figure 15 shows an underside view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure
   12 and showing a sensor assembly and a first embodiment of an inlet section of the gases
   stream flow path having a spiral flow path;
           Figure 16 shows a perspective view of the underside of the respiratory assistance
   apparatus of Figure 12;
15         Figure 17 shows a close-up perspective view of the underside of the respiratory
   assistance apparatus of Figure 12 and in particular a portion of the inlet section of the gases
   stream flow path and sensor assembly;
           Figure 18A shows an underside view of the respiratory apparatus of Figure 12,
   showing a sensor assembly and a second embodiment of an inlet section of the gases stream
20 flow path having a direct flow path;
           Figure 18B shows a rear end elevation view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of
   Figure 18A with the direct inlet flow path;
           Figure 18C shows a perspective view of the underside of the respiratory apparatus of
   Figure 18A;
25         Figure 19 shows a perspective view of a housing of a sensor assembly in accordance
   with an embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 20 shows a perspective view of the sensor assembly housing of Figure 19 with
   an arrangement of sensors mounted to the housing;
           Figure 21 shows an underside view of the housing of the sensor assembly of Figure
30 19;

                                                 - 12
           Figure 22 shows a plan view of the top side of the housing of the sensor assembly of
   Figure 19;
           Figure 23 shows a side elevation view of the housing of the sensor assembly of Figure
    19;
 5         Figure 24 shows an end elevation view of the housing of the sensor assembly of
   Figure 19;
           Figure 25 shows a block diagram of a sensor control system of the respiratory
   assistance apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
           Figures 26A-26E      show schematic      diagrams   of various ultrasonic transducer
10 configurations for the sensor assembly using cross-flow beams; and
           Figures 27A-27C show schematic           diagrams of various ultrasonic transducer
   configurations for the sensor assembly using along-flow beams.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
   Overview
15         This invention relates primarily to a sensor assembly and associated sensor control
   circuitry for sensing various characteristics of a stream of gases flowing in a respiratory
   assistance apparatus. By way of example, an embodiment of the sensor assembly and sensor
   control system will be described with reference to a respiratory assistance apparatus of the
   integrated system type in which the blower unit is integrated with the humidification unit in a
20 single housing.    However, it will be appreciated that the sensor assembly and associated
   sensor control system may be implemented in a modular type respiratory assistance apparatus
   system in which the humidification unit is separate from the blower unit.
           Further, the embodiment to be described is with reference to a respiratory assistance
   apparatus being used particularly for high-flow humidification and oxygen therapy in which
25 the stream of gases can be considered a binary gas mixture of atmospheric air blended with
   supplementary oxygen (02) such that the oxygen fraction of the stream of gases delivered to
   the end user has an increased oxygen fraction relative to atmospheric air.          In the art,
   supplementing or blending the         atmospheric    gases with another gas is known as
   'augmentation' and is typically used to vary the concentration of a particular gas, such as
30 oxygen or nitrogen, relative to its concentration in atmospheric air.

                                                   - 13
            It will be appreciated that the sensor assembly and sensing circuitry may alternatively
   be implemented in other respiratory assistance apparatuses that are particularly configured for
   or controlled for use in other respiratory therapies, such as PAP therapies, whether such
   systems deliver a stream of pressurised gases of atmospheric air only or atmospheric air
 5 augmented with another particular gas, such as oxygen or nitrogen. It will be appreciated that
   while the sensor assembly and sensor control system are primarily configured for sensing the
   oxygen fraction of a binary gases mixture comprising atmospheric gases augmented with
   oxygen, the sensor assembly and sensor control system may also be configured or adapted to
   sense characteristics of a gases stream which comprise other augmented air blends or binary
10 gas mixtures, such as atmospheric air augmented with nitrogen (N2) from a nitrogen supply
   or augmented with carbon dioxide (C02) from a carbon dioxide supply or any other suitable
   supplemental gas, or helium augmented with oxygen or any other suitable binary gas
   mixtures.
   Integrated respiratory assistance apparatus for high-flow humidification and oxygen
15 therapy
            Referring to Figure 3, the main housing of the integrated respiratory assistance
   apparatus 10 (respiratory device) in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is
   shown.      The respiratory device 10 comprises a blower unit that generates a stream of
   pressurised or high-flow gases which is then heated and humidified by a humidification unit
20 in a manner previously described.          Although not shown in Figure 3, the gases stream
   generated by the respiratory device 10 is typically delivered to a patient by a patient interface
   that typically comprises a flexible delivery conduit or tube that is connected at one end to a
   gases outlet 12 of the respiratory device 10, and at the other end, to a user interface, which is
   typically a nasal cannula, or alternatively may be a nasal mask, full face mask, tracheostomy
25 fitting, or any other suitable user interface.
            In this embodiment, the respiratory device 10 is provided with a humidification unit
    15 of the type previously described with reference to Figure 2 for example.                  The
   humidification unit 15 comprises a humidification water chamber 17 and heater plate 19
   which are installed within a humidification unit compartment generally indicated at 14
30 located at or toward the front end 11 of the main housing. Referring to Figures 3 and 5, the
   humidification chamber 17 is provided with an inlet port 16 and outlet port 18 for connecting

                                                  - 14
   the chamber into the flow path of the respiratory device when installed. For example, the
   inlet port 16 is connected into the flow path after the blower unit such that the humidification
   chamber 17 receives a stream of pressurised or high-flow gases through the inlet from the
   blower unit located at or toward the rear end 13 of the main housing. Once heated and
 5 humidified, the stream of gases exits the humidification chamber via its outlet port 18, which
   is fluidly connected to the gases outlet 12 of the respiratory device 10.
            Referring to Figure 6, a gases inlet assembly 20 of the respiratory device 10 is shown
   at the rear end 13 of the main housing.       In this embodiment, the gases inlet assembly 20
   comprises one or more atmospheric air inlet vents 22 through which ambient atmospheric air
10 is drawn into the device by the blower unit and a supplemental gas connection inlet 24 which
   may be connected to a central gases supply of a supplemental gas, such as a flow of oxygen
   for blending with the atmospheric air to increase the oxygen fraction. As will be explained in
   further detail later, the binary gas mixture of air and oxygen is drawn or sucked in by the
   blower unit and pressurised into a gas stream of a desired flow rate for subsequent delivery
15 into the humidification unit where it is heated and humidified before delivery to the end user
   via a patient interface to complete the breathing circuit.
            Reverting to Figure 3, in this embodiment the main housing of the respiratory device
    10 is of a two-part construction comprising a lower housing part 26 that is releasably coupled
   or fitted to an upper housing part 28 and which when assembled together form the overall
20 main housing or casing which encloses the blower unit and provides the humidification unit
   compartment for receiving the humidification chamber. However, it will be appreciated that
   a multi-part housing construction of more than two parts or a single integral main housing
   may alternatively be employed.       In this embodiment, the housing parts are moulded from
   plastic, but it will be appreciated that one or more components or parts of the housing may be
25 formed from other materials if desired.
            Referring to Figure 7, the main base or underside portion 26a of the lower housing
   part 26 is shown. Referring to Figure 8, a user control interface 30 is provided on the main
   upper portion 28a of the upper housing part 28 and which may comprise user controls and/or
   a user display for controlling the respiratory device 10.
30          Referring to Figure 9, the respiratory device 10 is shown with the upper housing part
   28 removed and exposing the main or outer blower unit casing 32 of the blower unit

                                                 - 15
   compartment that in this embodiment is housed and located toward the rear end 13 of the
   main housing. A printed circuit board 31 comprising the control system electronics of the
   respiratory device 10 and being mounted alongside the blower unit casing 32 is also visible in
   Figure 9. Also more clearly shown are the connectors and/or conduits 23,25 which fluidly
 5 connect the inlet 16 and outlet 18 ports of the humidification chamber 17 to the blower unit
   and gases outlet 12, respectively. Figure 10 shows the inner blower casing 34 which houses
   the motor and impeller of the blower unit. The gases outlet of the blower unit is indicated
   generally at 35. The inner blower casing 34 is mounted or housed inside the main blower
   unit casing 32 shown in Figure 9.
10          Referring to Figure 10A, the gases outlet 35 of the blower unit can be seen more
   clearly.   The blower unit is also provided with a central gases inlet aperture or port 37
   through which gases are drawn by the rotating impeller of the blower unit.               In this
   embodiment, the inlet port 37 of the blower unit is fluidly connected by a flow path to the
   gases inlet assembly 20.
15          Referring to Figure 11, a base compartment 36 is situated beneath the blower unit at
   or toward the rear end 13 of the main housing. In this embodiment, the base compartment 36
   is mounted to or within the lower housing part 26. The base compartment 36 comprises an
   exit port or aperture 38 in its upper portion or lid 36a that is fluidly connected by conduit
   and/or connectors to the inlet port 37 of the blower unit such that in operation the gases
20 stream flows through into the blower unit from the base compartment 36 after entering the
   gases inlet assembly 20. Figure 12 shows the base compartment 36 more clearly with the
   lower housing part 26 of the main housing omitted from view.           The humidification unit
   compartment 14 is also more clearly visible in Figure 12.
   Flow path ofgases stream
25          In operation, the flow or stream of gases is transported from the gases inlet assembly
   20 to the gases outlet 12 via a flow path through the respiratory device 10.             In this
   embodiment, the flow path starts at the gases inlet assembly 20 where the stream of gases,
   such as atmospheric air blended with supplemental oxygen enter the respiratory device 10
   and are channelled or transported through an inlet section of the flow path in the base
30 compartment 36 prior to entering the blower unit compartment above. Upon exiting the inlet
   section of the flow path, the stream of gases enters the blower unit where the gases are

                                                - 16
   pressurised or accelerated into a high flow gas stream having a controllable flow rate, which
   is typically high flow for high-flow humidification therapies. In such applications, the flow
   rate may range from about 1 L/min to about 100 L/min, and more preferably from about 2
   L/min to about 60 L/min.       The flow path exits the blower unit and enters the fluidly
 5 connected (e.g. via conduits and/or connectors and/or ports) humidification unit in which the
   gases stream is heated and humidified. The flow path terminates with the gases stream being
   transported from the outlet 18 of the humidification unit to the gases outlet 12 of the
   respiratory device 10.
           It will be appreciated that certain portions or sections of the flow path of the gases
10 stream may be fully sealed, for example the flow path after the humidification unit.
   Additionally, the flow path may also be sealed between the humidification unit and blower
   unit, and the inlet section of the flow path prior to the blower unit may also optionally be
   substantially sealed along a significant portion after the gases inlet assembly 20. It will be
   appreciated that the flow path for transporting the gases stream may be defined by conduits,
15 ports and/or connectors fluidly connecting various components, such as the blower unit to the
   humidification unit, and/or generally by the formation of the housing and casings within the
   respiratory device which can be configured with enclosed channels or passages, for example
   formed from internal walls or surfaces, for directing the gases stream through the respiratory
   device.
20 Spiral inlet flow path -first embodiment
           Figure 14 shows the inlet aperture 58 formed in the rear of the base compartment 36.
   The inlet aperture 58 is situated behind gases inlet assembly 20. Referring to Figure 15, a
   first embodiment of the inlet section of the gases stream flow path will be described. The
   inlet section of the gases stream flow path is provided in the base compartment 36 of the
25 main housing and extends from the gases inlet assembly 20 at the rear of the respiratory
   device 10 to the exit port 38 of the base compartment, prior to entering the inlet port 37 of the
   blower unit above. As shown in Figure 15, the inlet section of the flow path as shown
   generally follows the path shown by arrows XX.
           In this embodiment, at least a portion of the inlet section of the flow path is shaped or
30 configured to promote stable air flow upon reaching the exit port 38, and before entering the
   blower unit compartment via the exit port 38. The stable air flow assists to reduce noise and

                                                   - 17
   increases the accuracy of the sensed gas characteristics measured by the sensor assembly in
   the sensor zone of the flow path. In this embodiment, the stable flow is created or provided
   by at least a portion of the inlet section of the flow path being spiraled or providing a spiraled
   course or path. For example, as shown in Figure 15, at least a portion of the flow path
 5 indicated by arrows XX is in the form of a gradually tightening path. The phrases "spiraled"
   or "spiral" are intended to mean any form of flow path that is continuous and gradually winds
   in upon itself from a start point to an end point, with one or multiple turns. It is intended to
   cover any uniform or non-uniform spiral path, whether a continuous and gradually tightening
   curve of reducing radius relative to a central point or axis wherein the rate of reducing radius
10 may be constant or varied, or an arbitrarily shaped spiral path as shown in Figure 14 wherein
   the flow path winds in upon itself (i.e. with at least one turn) such that the path spirals
   towards a reference point located within the outer most turn, whether the reference point is
   located centrally or not.
            The spiral portion of the flow path may form a substantial part of the entire inlet
15 section of the flow path, or alternatively, may form a minor part of the inlet section of the
   flow path depending on design requirements. In this embodiment, the spiral portion of the
   flow path starts at about where indicated at 42 and ends after just over one inward spiral turn
   at about where indicated at 44. The inlet section of the flow path starts at an inlet zone with
   an initial section or portion generally indicated at 46 prior to the start 42 of the spiral portion,
20 and then finishes at a terminating section or portion generally indicated at 48 after the end 44
   of the spiral portion. In this embodiment, the terminating portion of the inlet section of the
   flow path is in the form of a gradually widening flow path that opens into a larger transition
   zone 48 within which the exit port 38 to the blower unit is located. The transition zone 48
   comprises a substantially curved perimeter wall that may substantially conform to at least a
25 portion of the circumference of a circle, or which is otherwise curved or concave in shape
   when viewed in plan.        In Figure 15, the circumferential perimeter wall section of the
   transition zone is defined between 50 and 52 about centre point Y in the transition zone 48.
   The shape of the wall in the transition zone is configured to continue to promote stable flow
   of the gases stream as it exits the inlet section of the flow path and into the blower unit.
30          As previously described, the flow path within the respiratory device 10 may be
   formed from a combination of conduit or tubing or the housing or casings of the respiratory

                                                  - 18
   device including connectors, ports and/or other couplings that fluidly connect the various
   sections of the flow path.       In this embodiment, the inlet section of the flow path is
   substantially defined by two co-extending walls 54 and 56 that are spaced-apart from each
   other and which are enclosed within the base compartment to form an enclosed conduit,
 5 channel or passageway by horizontally extending upper and lower walls or surface, such as
   the upper lid 36a of the base compartment and the base or underside portion 26a of the lower
   housing part 26 of the main housing (see Figure 7). As shown in this embodiment, the walls
   54, 56 are upright and extend substantially perpendicularly or vertically relative to the
   substantially horizontal enclosing upper lid 36a of the base compartment and underside
10 portion 26a of the lower housing part 26. It will be appreciated that the flow path defined by
   the co-extending walls 54 and 56 may alternatively be enclosed from above and/or below by
   one or more planar plates or members. In this embodiment, the flow path, at least within the
   spiral portion of the inlet section, has a substantially rectangular or square cross-sectional
   shape, although it would be appreciated that this is not essential. In alternative embodiments,
15 the flow path may be configured to have any other desired cross-sectional shape, including
   circular, oval, or otherwise, and the shape may be uniform along the length of the flow path
   or may vary between two or more shapes and/or sizes. It will also be appreciated that the
   inlet section and particularly the spiral portion of the inlet section of the flow path may be
   formed from a rigidly shaped conduit or tubing that is formed to extend in the desired spiral
20 shape.
           The cross-sectional area of the spiral portion of the inlet section of the flow path in
   this embodiment is substantially uniform along the length of the spiral portion, although in
   alternative embodiments the cross-sectional area may be non-uniform along the length of the
   spiral portion. In particular, the width (W) between the co-extending walls 54 and 56, is
25 substantially constant throughout the spiral portion of the inlet section in this embodiment,
   but may be varied along the length of the spiral portion in alternative embodiments if desired.
   With reference to Figure 17, the height (H) of the walls is also preferably constant along at
   least the spiral portion of the inlet section of the flow path, but may be configured to vary in
   other embodiments if desired.
30         In this embodiment, the entire inlet section of the flow path extends substantially
   within the same plane within the base compartment 36 such that there is no vertical deviation

                                                   - 19
   or displacement of the flow path within the inlet section, and at least within the spiral portion
   of the inlet section, until the flow path transitions to the exit port 38 where it extends
   vertically up into the blower unit casing 32 above the base compartment 36.
            In this embodiment, there is a single spiral portion located substantially prior to the
 5 transition zone of the flow path where it enters the blower unit compartment 32. However, in
   alternative embodiments, it will be appreciated that the flow path may comprise two or more
   separate spiral portions located in series in the flow path. If there are a plurality of spiral
   portions, they may all be located prior to the blower unit or in the flow path after the blower
   unit prior to the humidifier unit, or alternatively, at least one spiral portion in each region may
10 be provided.      In the preferred embodiment, the spiral portion or portions are provided
   preferably before the flow path enters the humidification unit, and more preferably, prior to
   the flow path entering the blower unit, or any other section of the flow path in which stable
   flow promotion is beneficial for noise reduction or gases stream characteristics sensing
   accuracy.
15 Sensor assembly
            Referring to Figures 15-17, the respiratory device 10 comprises a sensor assembly 60
   located or situated in-line with the flow path prior to the humidification unit for sensing
   various characteristics or parameters of the gases stream. In this embodiment, the sensor
   assembly 60 is provided in a sensor zone of the inlet section of the flow path, and preferably
20 within the spiral portion of the inlet section of the flow path when the gases stream has stable
   flow characteristics. The sensor assembly 60 comprises a sensor housing as shown in Figures
    16 and 17 that is configured or arranged to receive and retain one or more sensors or sensor
   components or sensor arrangements for detecting or sensing one or more characteristics of
   the stream of gases flowing in the flow path. Figures 16 and 17 show the housing of the
25 sensor assembly 60 without any sensors for clarity.            The housing and sensors will be
   explained in further detail with references to Figures 19-24.
            In this embodiment, the sensor housing is a modular component that is releasably
   secured, mounted, engaged, retained or fitted within the flow path so that it may be removed
   if desired for replacement, maintenance or repair. In this embodiment, the walls 56 and 54 of
30 the flow path in the inlet section are discontinuous within a substantially straight section 61
   of the flow path to thereby provide a receiving or mounting slot, aperture, recess or gap

                                                 - 20
   within which the sensor housing of the sensor assembly 60 may be received and retained.
   When installed, the housing of the sensor assembly bridges the retaining gap provided by the
   discontinuous walls 54, 56 so as to complete the flow path. With this configuration, the
   sensor assembly 60 is configured to provide sensing of one or more characteristic of the flow
 5 of gases in the bulk flow or primary flow path of the respiratory device. In other words, the
   sensor assembly 60 is not located in a separate chamber or secondary flow path relative to the
   bulk or primary flow path through the respiratory device.
           In this embodiment, the sensor housing is configured to be received and retained
   within the mounting aperture of the flow path via a friction fit.         However, it will be
10 appreciated that any other releasable mounting configuration or retention system may
   alternatively be used, including a clipping system, latching system, snap-fit, or any other
   releasable configuration.
           The sensor assembly 60 may be configured or adapted to mount one or more sensors
   for sensing one or more characteristics of the flow of gases in the flow path. Any suitable
15 sensor may be mounted to the sensor housing as will be appreciated. In this embodiment, the
   sensor assembly at least comprises a gas composition sensor for sensing or measuring the gas
   composition or concentration of one or more gases within the gases stream.              In this
   embodiment, the gas composition sensor is in the form of an ultrasound gas composition
   sensor system that employs ultrasonic or acoustic waves for determining gas concentrations.
20 In particular, the ultrasound gas composition sensor utilizes binary gas sensing or analysis for
   determining the relative gas concentrations of two gases in a binary gas mixture.        In this
   embodiment, the gas composition sensor is configured to measure the oxygen fraction in the
   bulk gases stream flow, which consists of atmospheric air augmented with supplemental
   oxygen, which is essentially a binary gas mixture of nitrogen (N2) and oxygen (02). It will
25 also be appreciated that the ultrasonic gas concentration sensor may be configured to measure
   the gas concentrations of other augmentation gases that have blended with atmospheric air in
   the gases stream, including nitrogen (N2) and carbon dioxide (C02), or any other ratio of two
   gases. For example, the ultrasonic gas concentration sensor may be configured to measure
   carbon dioxide (C02) and deliver controlled carbon dioxide levels to the patient to control
30 the patient's breathing pattern.    By adjusting the carbon dioxide levels to the patient, the
   Cheyne-Stokes respiration of the patient can be controlled.          Controlling the patient's

                                                -  21
   breathing pattern can be useful in some situations, such as for athlete training to mimic high
   altitude conditions.
           As previously described, in this embodiment, the respiratory device 10 comprises a
   gases inlet assembly 20 that is configured to receive ambient atmospheric air and a
 5 supplementary gas, such as oxygen from an oxygen supply line or gas bottle. However, it
   will be appreciated that the air supply need not necessarily be ambient and the air may be
   supplied to the gases inlet assembly from an air supply line or gas bottle. Further, it will be
   appreciated that the respiratory device 10 need not necessarily receive a supply of air. The
   respiratory device 10 may be configured to receive a supply of any two or more suitable gases
10 for blending and subsequent delivery to the end user via a patient interface. The gases may
   be supplied to the gases inlet assembly of the respiratory device by any suitable means,
   including from central gases supply lines, gas bottles, or otherwise.
           In this embodiment, the sensor assembly 60 also comprises a temperature sensor that
   is configured to measure the temperature of the gases stream and a flow rate sensor that is
15 configured to sense the flow rate of the gases stream in the flow path.
   Direct inlet flow path - second embodiment
           Referring to Figures 18A- 18C, a second embodiment of the inlet section of the gases
   stream flow path in the base compartment 36 will be described. Like reference numerals in
   the drawings represent like components with respect to the first embodiment spiral inlet flow
20 path described with references to Figures 14-17. In this second embodiment, the inlet section
   of the flow path is a shorter and more direct flow path between the inlet aperture 58 and exit
   port 38 of the base compartment 36.       The shorter and more direct flow path reduces gas
   residence time in the base compartment, which reduces gas heat-up caused by the
   surrounding electronic components.
25         In this embodiment, the inlet flow path can be defined by three main zones or regions
   extending between the inlet aperture 58 and exit port 38. The three regions are an inlet zone
   39, a sensor zone 41, and a transition zone 43.
           Referring to Figure 18A, the inlet zone or region 39 extends between the inlet
   aperture 58 and approximately the transition line EE prior to the sensor zone 41.       In this
30 embodiment the inlet zone 39 of the inlet flow path is defined between two walls 45, 47
   which extend from at or toward the inlet aperture 58 and through to the sensor assembly 60.

                                                  -22
   In this embodiment, the cross-sectional area of the inlet zone 39 gradually diminishes or
   reduces from the inlet aperture 58 toward the transition line EE into the sensor zone 41, such
   that the profile of the walls in the inlet zone forms a funnel-like configuration. For example,
   the side walls 45 and 47 have a wider displacement from each other at the inlet aperture 58
 5 relative to their displacement from each other at or toward the transition line EE. In other
   words, this distance or displacement between the side walls 45,47 reduces from the inlet
   aperture 58 to the transition line EE such that the inlet zone 39 starts with a wide opening at
   the inlet aperture 58 and the flow path narrows progressively toward the transition line EE
   prior to the sensor zone 41.       This funnel-like configuration of the inlet zone creates an
10 accelerating gases stream flow, which promotes a more stable gas flow in the subsequent
   sensor zone.
            Optionally, the inlet zone 39 may be provided with one or more flow directors 49. In
   this embodiment, the inlet zone 39 comprises a bend in that it is not a straight flow path
   directly from gases inlet assembly to the sensor zone, and this may generate an uneven flow
15 or velocity gradient across the inlet flow path in one or more regions of the inlet flow path.
   To counteract this, the inlet zone 39 is provided with a plurality of flow directors 49 that are
   in the form of arcuate or curved fins (more clearly seen in Figure 18C) which are configured
   or provided with a profile or shape that assists in promoting an even air flow into the sensor
   zone 41 that is not biased toward any particular wall of the flow path. It will be appreciated
20 that the number and shape or profile of the flow directors 49 may be varied to assist in
   directing the air flow at the desired angle into the sensor zone 41, but preferably the bulk flow
   is configured to enter the sensor zone at a substantially perpendicular direction relative to the
   transition line EE or front opening of the sensor assembly 60. In this embodiment, the fins 49
   assist in providing a stable flow through the sensor zone 41. Referring to Figure 18B, the fins
25 49 may also function as tamper guards or protection guards to prevent assess by a user to the
   sensor assembly 60 which may contain sensitive or calibrated sensor components.            In this
   embodiment the fins 49 are integrally formed and suspended down into the inlet zone from
   the upper lid 36a of the base compartment 36, although it will be appreciated that the fins
   may alternatively be integrally formed with or attached so as to extend up into the inlet zone
30 from the base or underside portion 26a of the lower housing part 26.              It will also be
   appreciated that the fins need not necessarily be vertically oriented, but may alternatively be

                                                 - 23
   horizontally oriented such that they extend from the side walls of the inlet zone of the inlet
   flow path, or oriented at any other suitable angle or mixtures of angles.
            The sensor zone 41 is defined between the end of the inlet zone at approximately
   transition line EE to the start of the transition zone 43 at approximately transition line FF.
 5 The sensor zone comprises a modular removable sensor assembly 60 of the type previously
   described with reference to Figures 15-17 and which is situated in-line with the bulk flow
   path for sensing various characteristics or parameters of the gases stream. As shown, the
   terminating portion of the side walls 45, 47 extend into the front opening side of the sensor
   assembly 60 and the terminating portions of a loop wall 51 of the transition zone 43 extends
10 into the opposite rear exit side of the sensor assembly 60.        In a similar manner to the
   embodiment described with reference to Figures 15-17, the sensor assembly 60 is releasably
   retained within a retaining gap provided or formed between the terminating portions of the
   side walls 45, 47 and the loop wall 51.
            The transition zone 43 is defined by a substantially curved perimeter or loop wall 51
15 that may substantially conform to at least a substantial portion of the circumference of a
   circle, or which is otherwise curved or concave in shape when viewed in plan.           In this
   embodiment, the loop wall 51 may extend circumferentially about centre point 53.            The
   opening into the transition zone 43 is defined by the terminating portions of the loop wall that
   extend outwardly relative to the centre point 53 for engaging with exit side of the sensor
20 assembly 60. As shown, the substantially circular or bulbous transition zone 43 comprises an
   outlet for the air flow through exit port 38 provided in the upper lid 36a of the base
   compartment 36.
            As with the spiral inlet flow path embodiment described with reference to Figures 14
    17, the shorter direct inlet flow path of Figures 18A-18C is also enclosed from above and
25 below by horizontally extending upper and lower walls or surfaces to form an enclosed
   channel or air flow passage. The flow path is primarily defined by the co-extending side
   walls 45,47 and loop wall 51, and these side walls are enclosed from above and below for
   example by the upper lid 36a of the base compartment and the base or underside portion 26a
   of the lower housing part 26 of the main housing (see Figure 7).           As shown, in this
30 embodiment the side walls 45, 47, 51 are upright and extend substantially perpendicularly or

                                                -24
   vertically relative to the substantially horizontal enclosing upper lid 36a of the base
   compartment and underside portion 26a of the lower housing part 26.
   Sensor housing and location
            In the above embodiments, the sensor assembly 60 is located in a sensor zone with the
 5 inlet section of the flow path prior to the blower unit. However, the sensor assembly may
   also be alternatively located in a sensor zone situated in any other suitable part of the flow
   path prior to the humidification unit. In particular, the sensor zone of the flow path may be
   located at any location in the flow path upstream of (i.e., prior to) the humidification unit,
   including either before or after the blower unit.
10          The sensor housing and sensors of the sensor assembly 60 will now be described in
   further detail. The sensor assembly may be employed in either of the spiral or direct inlet
   flow path embodiments described with reference to Figures 14-18C. Referring to Figures 19
   23, the sensor assembly 60 comprises a sensor housing 62 to which one or more sensors are
   mounted for measuring various characteristics of the gases stream in the bulk flow path. In
15 this embodiment, the sensor housing 62 comprises a central main body 63 that extends
   between a first end 74 and second end 76. The main body 63 is hollow and has openings at
   both ends such that it provides a passageway or sensing passage 86 for the gases stream to
   pass through from the first end 74 to the second end 76 of the main body 63. In particular,
   the gases stream flows generally in the direction of the flow axis 110 shown in Figure 20 that
20 extends from the first end 74 to the second end 76 of the main body 63.
            In this embodiment, the main body 63 is formed between the first 74 and second 76
   ends by two spaced-apart vertical side walls 64 and 66, and upper 68 and lower 70 walls that
   extend horizontally between the vertically extending side walls 64, 66, and where the walls
   collectively form and define the sensing passage. The main body is open at both ends 74,76
25 which in use are aligned with the flow path direction such that gases stream travels through
   the hollow interior or cavity of the main body defined by the inner surfaces of the side, upper
   and lower walls. In this embodiment, the width W between the side walls 64, 66 and the
   height (H) between the upper and lower walls 68, 70 substantially corresponds to the cross
   sectional dimensions of the portion or section of the flow path immediately surrounding
30 either side of the sensor assembly.
   Mounting of sensors

                                                 - 25
   Temperature and flow rate sensors
            Referring to Figures 19, 20 and 22, this embodiment of the sensor assembly is
   provided with mounting apertures 78, 80 for receiving and retaining a temperature sensor 82
   and flow rate sensor 84. For example, a temperature sensor mounting aperture 78 is provided
 5 in the upper wall 68 of the main body of the sensor housing and is configured to receive and
   retain a temperature sensor. Likewise, a separate flow rate sensor mounting aperture 80 is
   provided in the upper wall 68 of the main body 63 of the sensor housing 62 and is shaped or
   configured to receive and retain a flow rate sensor. The sensors 82, 84 may be held within
   their respective mounting apertures 78, 80 by friction fit, snap fit or any other coupling or
10 fixing configuration. The temperature sensor may also optionally be provided with infra-red
   radiation shielding components.
            Referring to Figure 20, the temperature sensor 82 and flow rate sensor 84 are mounted
   such that they are suspended down into sensing passage 86 from the upper wall 68 of the
   main body 63. Preferably, the temperature sensor 82 and flow rate sensor 84 are suspended
15 substantially centrally between the ends 74, 76 of the main body. The sensors 82, 84 need
   not necessarily be suspended from the upper wall and need not necessarily be vertically
   oriented. In other embodiments, the sensors 82, 84 may be mounted or secured to any of the
   upper, lower or side walls of the main body 63 of the sensor housing. Further, the orientation
   of the sensors 82, 84 into the sensing passage from their support or mounting wall may be
20 vertical, horizontal, or any other suitable angle. The sensors 82, 84 need not necessarily be
   centrally located relative to their support wall, but may be located at any suitable position
   within the sensing passage, central or otherwise. The sensors 82, 84 may also extend from
   the same or different support walls.
            In this embodiment, the temperature sensor 82 may be a monolithic, digital, IC,
25 temperature transmitter, but any alternative type of temperature sensor, whether analogue or
   digital, may be employed. In this embodiment, the temperature sensor 82 is a silicon band
   gap temperature transmitter.
            In this embodiment, the flow rate sensor 84 comprises a hot-wire anemometer (HWA)
   flow detector. In one form, the flow rate sensor 84 is a constant-resistance HWA in which
30 the detector comprises a controlled temperature heated bead thermister located in the sensing
   passage and from which the flow rate can be determined based on the energy (current)

                                                 - 26
   required to maintain the bead at a preset temperature. The preset temperature is preferably
   configured to be set to a level that does not alter the local temperature of the gases stream
   flowing in the sensing passage appreciably in the context of 02 measurement. It will be
   appreciated that in other forms, the flow rate sensor 84 may comprise a constant-current
 5 HWA in which flow rate is determined from the change in resistance of the heated bead. It
   will be appreciated that any other suitable form of flow rate sensor or detector may be used if
   desired.
   Ultrasound gas composition sensor system
           In this embodiment, the ultrasound gas composition sensor is implemented and
10 configured to sense the relative gas concentrations of a binary gas mixture in the gases stream
   using binary gas analysis based on a non-invasive cross-flow beam, pulse or wave of
   ultrasound energy, as will be explained in further detail later.
           The sensor housing comprises transducer mounting assemblies generally indicated at
   90 and 92 for receiving and retaining ultrasonic transducer components of the ultrasound gas
15 composition sensor system. In this embodiment, the transducer mounting assemblies 90, 92
   are provided on opposite sides of the main body 63 such that they support or mount a pair of
   transducers on opposite sides of the sensing passage 86. The transducers are aligned with,
   and face each other across, the sensing passage 86. The transducer mounting assemblies 90,
   92 are mounted or fixed to a respective side wall 64, 66 of the main body. Each transducer
20 mounting assembly or formation is configured to provide a retaining cavity 90a, 92a that is
   dimensioned and shaped to receive and retain a complementary dimensioned and shaped
   transducer component of the gas composition sensor system.           In this embodiment, the
   receiving cavities 90a, 92a are substantially cylindrical and are aligned or coaxial with
   circular transducer apertures provided through each of the side walls 64, 66 of the main body.
25 Figure 19 shows a transducer aperture 66a of side wall 66, and side wall 64 similarly has a
   corresponding transducer aperture, although it is not visible. It will be appreciated that the
   transducer pair could in alternative embodiments be mounted in the upper 68 and lower 70
   walls of the main body, with the remaining temperature and flow rate sensors 82,84 being
   mounted to extend into the sensing passage from either side wall 64,66.
30         Referring to Figures 23 and 24, in this embodiment each transducer mounting
   assembly 90, 92 has a cylindrical base portion 90b, 92b that is fixed or mounted at one end to

                                                 - 27
   a respective outer surface of a respective side wall 64, 66 of the main body 63, and at the
   other end is provided with at least one pair of opposed clips or clipping portions or fingers
   90c, 92c extending from the cylindrical base portion.          The cylindrical base portion in
   combination with the extending clips collectively defines the retaining cavity 90a, 92a within
 5 which the transducer component is securely received and retained. In this embodiment, each
   transducer mounting assembly is provided with a circular array of clips or clipping portions
   90c, 92c that are interspaced about the entire circumference of the cylindrical base portion
   90b, 92b. In this embodiment, six clipping portions 90c, 92c forming three opposed pairs are
   provided, but it will be appreciated that the number of pairs of clipping portions may be
10 varied if desired.
            The clipping portions 90c, 92c may be resiliently flexible such that they may be
   flexed slightly outwardly relative to their respective receiving cavity 90a, 92a axis indicated
   at 90d, 92d respectively. The clipping portions 90c, 92c may also be configured to taper in
   direction toward their respective cavity axis 90d, 92d as they extend away from their
15 respective cylindrical base portions 90b, 92b. This provides a cylindrical retaining cavity
   with reducing or gradually tapering diameter as it extends away from the base portion 90b,
   92b.    As shown in Figure 24, each clipping portion 90c, 92c is substantially arcuate or
   concave in shape when viewed in cross-section along its length extending away from its
   associated cylindrical base portion 90b, 92b such that it conforms to a circumferential portion
20 of a cylinder. Referring to Figure 23, by way of example each clipping portion extends
   between a first end 94 located at the cylindrical base portion 90b and a second or terminating
   end 96 which defines the end of the transducer receiving cavity 90a. In this embodiment, the
   inner surfaces toward terminating end 96 of each clipping portion are provided with a ridge
   or shoulder portion 97 that extends into the retaining cavity and which is configured to act as
25 a stop or grip formation for securing the transducer component within its retaining cavity.
            When installing the transducer components, which are typically cylindrical in shape,
   within their respective transducer mounting assemblies 90, 92, the clipping portions 90c, 92c
   flex slightly outwardly upon partial insertion of the transducer components and then revert to
   their rest state upon full engagement of the transducers within the cavities to thereby securely
30 grip or hold the transducer within its respective retaining cavity.

                                                   - 28
            It will be appreciated that other transducer mounting assemblies could alternatively be
   used to receive and retain the transducer elements within the sensor housing if desired.
   Preferably, the transducer mounting assemblies are configured to allow the transducer
   components to be releasably secured, such that the transducers can be removed from the
 5 sensor housing for replacement or repair if desired.
            In this embodiment, the main body 63 and transducer mounting assemblies are
   integrally formed with each other from a suitable material, such as plastic. However, it will
   be appreciated that the parts of the sensor housing may be formed separately and then fixed
   or connected together.
10          Referring to Figure 20, transducers 100, 102 are shown installed in their respective
   transducer mounting assemblies 90, 92 of the sensor housing.          In this embodiment, the
   transducers and transducer mounting assemblies are configured to cooperate such that the
   front surfaces of the transducers extend into their respective transducer apertures in the side
   walls 64,66 of the main body 63 such that they sit flush with the remaining inner surfaces of
15 the side walls. For example, with reference to Figure 20, the front surface 102b of transducer
    102 is shown to be substantially flush with the inner surface 66b of the side wall 66. The
   same configuration is provided for the opposing transducer component 100.
           As shown, this configuration provides a pair of transducers 100,102 that are aligned
   and facing each other from opposite sides of the sensing passage 86 of the main body 63 such
20 that ultrasound waves are transmitted in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to the
   direction or flow axis 110 of the flow of gases travelling through the passage 86 from the first
   end 74 to the second end 76 of the main body.
            The distance (e.g. indicated by W in Figure 19) between the pair of transducers
    100,102, which defines the acoustic beam path length, is selected to be large enough to
25 provide the desired sensitivity but short enough to avoid phase wrap-around ambiguity. For
   example, the distance between the transducers is selected to be large enough to increase
   sensitivity, but is limited based on the total phase shift expected for the range of gas
   compositions and temperatures being sensed.
   Sensor control system and circuitry
30          Referring to Figure 20, the electrical terminals or connectors 100a, 102a of the
   transducers 100, 102 protrude out from the sides of the main body 63 of the sensor housing

                                                - 29
   and the electrical terminals 82a, 84a of the temperature and flow rate sensors 82,84 are
   accessible at the outer surface of the upper wall 68 of the main body 63. A flexible wiring
   loom or tape 112 may extend across the sides and upper surface of the sensor housing to
   provide wiring connections to the electrical terminals of the sensors. The wiring 112 extends
 5 to the sensor control system and circuitry of the respiratory device 10 which is configured to
   control the sensors, as will now be described in further detail.
           Referring to Figure 25, an example of the sensor control system 150 that is electrically
   connected via the wiring 112 to the sensor components 100,102,84, and 82 will be described
   by way of example. It will be appreciated that the electronic sensor control system 150 may
10 be implemented in software or hardware, including implementation on any programmable
   device such as a microprocessor, microcontroller, Digital Signal Processor or similar, and
   which may have memory and associated input and output circuitry as will be appreciated. It
   will be appreciated that the various modules of the sensor control system 150 may be varied
   or separated further or integrated and Figure 25 will be described by way of example only as
15 to the general functionality of the sensor control system. The sensor control system 150 may
   be integrated with the main control system of the respiratory device or may be a separate sub
   system that communicates with the main controller or control system. The sensor control
   system 150 will be described with reference to a particular arrangement or configuration of
   sensors that are arranged for determining the gas composition or relative concentrations of
20 gases in a binary gas mixture, such as an air/oxygen mixture, which is substantially
   equivalent to a nitrogen/oxygen mixture.     However, it will be appreciated that the sensor
   control system may be adapted to provide information indicative of other gas concentrations
   within the gases stream.
   Flow rate module
25         The flow rate sensor 84 is configured to sense the flow rate, for example in Litres per
   minute, of the gases stream 110 flowing through the sensing passage 86 of the sensor housing
   and generate a representative flow rate signal 152 that is received and processed by flow rate
   module 154 in the sensor control system 150. A motor speed sensor 120 is also preferably
   provided in the blower unit for sensing the motor speed, for example in revolutions per
30 minute (rpm) of blower unit motor. The motor speed sensor 120 generates a representative
   motor speed signal 156 that is received and processed by motor speed module 158.

                                                 - 30
   Temperature module
           A temperature module 160 is configured to receive and process a temperature signal
    162 that is generated by the temperature sensor 82 which represents the temperature of the
   gases stream flowing through the sensing passage 86 of the sensor housing.              In this
 5 embodiment, the temperature sensor 82 is configured to sense the temperature of the gases
   stream in the vicinity of the acoustic beam path between the transducers 100, 102.
           The temperature      module    160 is optionally configured to apply temperature
   compensation to the temperature signal 162 to compensate for potential errors or offsets
   generated by the temperature sensor 82. In particular, as the sensor assembly 60 is located
10 below the blower unit compartment and other electronic circuitry, heat from the circuitry and
   motor, depending on the operating conditions, can impact on the temperature as sensed by the
   temperature sensor 82.      For example, due to the heat above the sensor assembly, the
   temperature signal 162 may indicate a gas stream temperature that is higher than the true
   temperature. To compensate for this potential error when in certain operating conditions, the
15 temperature module 160 is configured to apply a temperature compensation factor or
   correction based on the following formula: Tcorrected = Tsensor + AT, where:
       " Tcorrected is the corrected temperature after compensation,
       "   Tsensor is the temperature as sensed by the temperature sensor 82 as represented by
           signal 162, and
20     9   AT is the calculated or predicted temperature error based on the current operating
           conditions of the respiratory device.
           The temperature error (A T) will vary depending on the operating conditions of the
   respiratory device 10. In this embodiment, the temperature error is calculated based on a
25 proportional relationship with the system conditions relating to the current flow rate 152 of
   the gases stream in the respiratory device and the current motor speed 156.       Typically, an
   increased flow rate has a cooling effect while increased motor speed causes increased heating
   within the housing of the respiratory device due to higher power usage. In operation, the
   temperature module is configured to continuously or periodically calculate the temperature
30 error A T based on the current system operating conditions, and in particular, the current flow
   rate 152 and motor speed 156.        The updated temperature error AT is then applied to the

                                                 -31
   incoming sensed temperature, Tsensor 162 from the temperature sensor to generate the
   corrected temperature, Tcorrected.
            In one embodiment, AT = a x (motor speed/flow rate), where a is a constant.
   However, it will be appreciated that AT may alternatively be calculated based on a look-up
 5 table or other algorithm which takes into account one or more other operating conditions or
   system variables relating to the operation of the respiratory device and which have an impact
   on the temperature variation that is likely to occur in the vicinity of the temperature sensor
   82. In some embodiments, A T may incorporate time dependent effects which have an impact
   on the temperature variation, such as heat storage in the respiratory device during long run
10 periods.    For example, AT may also be expressed as an integro-differential equation to
   express time variant effects such as those caused by thermal capacitance of one or more parts
   of the respiratory device.
   Gas composition module
            The gas composition sensor system is configured as an ultrasound binary gas sensing
15 system. As mentioned, the gas composition sensing system in this embodiment comprises a
   pair of ultrasonic transducer components 100, 102 that are provided on opposite sides of the
   sensing passageway of the sensor housing.          One of the transducer components 100 is
   configured as an ultrasonic transmitter for transmitting a unidirectional ultrasound or acoustic
   beam wave or pulse across the passageway in a direction substantially perpendicular to the
20 direction of the gases flow stream through the sensing passage to the other ultrasonic
   transducer which is configured as an ultrasonic receiver to receive the transmitted ultrasonic
   wave or pulse on the other side of the passage.           In this embodiment, the transducer
   components 100, 102 may be piezo-ceramic transducer elements, typically operating at a
   narrow bandwidth, or any other suitable operable ultrasonic transducer elements.         In this
25 embodiment, the transducer elements operate at a frequency of approximately 25 kHz,
   although this may be varied as desired.        In preferred forms, the operating frequency is
   selected to be above the human audible acoustic spectrum so that the gas composition sensing
   is silent to the user and/or at a high enough frequency to reduce or minimise interference
   from noise sources.
30          The ultrasonic transmitter 100 and receiver 102 are controlled respectively by driver
    170 and receiver 172 circuitry of the gas composition module 174. In particular, the driver

                                                 - 32
   circuitry 170 provides a control excitation signal 176 to the ultrasonic transducer to drive it to
   transmit pulses of ultrasonic energy.      The ultrasonic receiver 102 senses the pulse and
   generates a representative reception signal 178 that is received and processed by its receiver
   circuitry 172. While a pulsed system is utilized in this embodiment, a continuous wave or
 5 standing wave approach may be employed in alternative embodiments.
           Binary gas analysis using ultrasound is based on sensing the speed of an acoustic
   pulse through the gas sample, which in this case is the bulk or primary flow of the gases
   stream flowing through sensing passage 86 of the sensor housing. The speed of sound is a
   function of gas mean molecular weight and temperature.            In this configuration, the gas
10 composition module 174 receives a temperature signal 164 from the temperature module 160
   representing an indicative temperature of the gases flowing between the beam path between
   ultrasonic transducers. With knowledge of sensed speed of sound and sensed temperature,
   the gas composition in the gases stream may be determined or calculated.            In particular,
   measurements of the speed of sound across the sensing passage may be used to infer the
15 ratios of two known gases by reference to empirical relationships, standard algorithms, or
   data stored in the form of look-up tables, as is known in the art of binary gas analysis with
   ultrasound.   It will be appreciated that alternatively an estimate of the temperature of the
   gases stream in the beam path of the ultrasound transducers may be used in the binary gas
   analysis calculations if a temperature sensor is not employed.              In such alternative
20 embodiments, the temperature of the gases stream may be conditioned or controlled to within
   a narrow temperature band to enable an estimate of temperature of the gases stream in the
   beam path to be used.
           In some embodiments, the respiratory device may also be provided with a humidity
   sensor that is located in the flow path and which is configured to generate a humidity signal
25 indicative of the humidity of the gases stream flowing through the sensor assembly. In such
   embodiments, the gas composition may be determined by the sensed speed of sound, and the
   sensed temperature and/or sensed humidity. The humidity sensor may be a relative humidity
   sensor or an absolute humidity sensor. In some embodiments, the gas composition may be
   determined based on the sensed speed of sound and the sensed humidity, without the need for
30 a temperature sensor.

                                                 - 33
           The gas composition sensing system may be used to measure respective ratios of any
   two known gases in a gas composition. In this embodiment, the gas composition module is
   configured to determine the relative gas concentration in a mixture of air blended with
   supplementary oxygen, which is substantially equivalent to a nitrogen/oxygen mixture. In
 5 such a binary gas mixture, by monitoring the speed of sound and taking the temperature into
   account, the mean molecular weight of the gas can be determined, and thus, the relative
   concentrations of the two gases may be determined. From this ratio, the oxygen fraction or
   nitrogen fraction of the gases stream may be extracted.
           In this embodiment, the gas composition module 124 comprises an analyser or
10 controller 180 that is configured to operate the ultrasonic transducers 100, 102 via their
   respective driver 170 and receiver 172 circuitry with control signals 171, 173. The analyser
    180 is also configured to receive and process the corrected temperature signal 164 from the
   temperature module 160. In operation, the analyser 180 is configured to periodically at a
   desired frequency transmit unidirectional ultrasonic or acoustic pulses across the sensing
15 passage to determine the speed of sound of the acoustic pulses. The measure of speed of
   sound is then used to determine the gas composition with knowledge of the temperature from
   the temperature module 160.       The speed of the acoustic pulse may be determined in any
   desired manner, including using timer circuitry to determine the transit time of the acoustic
   pulse to travel across the passageway from the transmitter 100 to the receiver 102 either
20 directly or indirectly via phase detection. It will be appreciated that phase can be tracked to
   minimise 'wrap-around' effects if suitable signal processing is implemented.      The distance
   between the transducer elements 100, 102 is known and equivalent to the width (W in Figure
    19) between the side walls 64, 66 of the sensor housing and therefore the speed of sound can
   be determined based on the transit time and distance between the transducers (which
25 corresponds to the beam path length). In particular, the analyser may be pre-programmed and
   calibrated with the data indicative of the distance between the transducers, and/or any other
   generally applicable or device specific characteristics useful in determining gas composition
   via speed of sound sensing. The calibration can take into account the change in distance
   between the transducer elements 100, 102 as a function of the temperature. For example, the
30 distance between the side walls 64, 66 of the sensor housing may increase or decrease as the
   temperature changes.

                                                 -34
           Optionally, the gas composition sensor module may be configured with a user
   selectable or pre-programmed scale factor or correction factor to account for argon when
   determining the oxygen fraction, which is preferably used when oxygen is supplied to the
   respiratory device from a commercial oxygen concentrator that uses a pressure swing
 5 adsorption technique. For example, the user may activate the control system to employ the
   argon scale or correction factor to modify the sensed oxygen fraction to remove any argon
   component to yield the computed oxygen fraction.
           The sensor control system 150 may output data or signals indicative of the various
   characteristics sensed by the sensor assembly or other sensors. For example, output signals
10 or data 182, 184, and 186 from modules 154, 158, 160 may represent the sensed flow rate
    182, motor speed 184, and temperature 186.         Likewise, the gas composition module is
   configured to generate one or more output signals or data 188 indicative of the gas
   composition as sensed by the ultrasound gas compositions sensing system.                In this
   embodiment, the output signal 188 may represent the oxygen fraction or oxygen (02)
15 concentration in the gases stream.      Alternatively, the signal or an additional signal may
   represent nitrogen (N2) concentration or fraction. It will also be appreciated that the system
   may be modified to provide signals representing other gas concentrations within the gases
   stream, including, but not limited to, carbon dioxide (C02) for example.
           The gas concentration output signal or signals 188 may then be received and
20 processed by the main controller of the respiratory device. For example, the main controller
   may be configured to display a sensed oxygen reading on an output display of the respiratory
   device based on the oxygen signal 188. In one embodiment, the user control interface 30 (see
   Figure 8) may be configured to display a gas concentration reading, e.g. oxygen concentration
   or other one or more gas concentration levels, as sensed by the ultrasound gas composition
25 sensor system.
           In some embodiments, the main controller is configured to determine whether one or
   more gas concentration levels, for example the oxygen concentration, stays within user
   defined ranges, defined by maximum and/or minimum thresholds.           For example, in such
   embodiments, the main controller may be configured to compare the sensed gas
30 concentration level based on the gas concentration output signal 188 to the user-defined or
   selected gas concentration level thresholds.      If the sensed level is below the minimum

                                                 - 35
   threshold, or above a maximum threshold, or otherwise outside a user-defined range, the
   main controller may trigger or activate an alarm incorporated into the device, which may be
   audible, visual, tactile, or any combination of these. The main controller may optionally also
   shut-down the device or trigger any other appropriate operational functions appropriate to the
 5 respective, triggered alarm.
           In some embodiments, the respiratory device 10 comprises a disinfection system
   and/or cleaning mode of the type described in WO 2007/069922, the contents of which are
   incorporated by reference.        Such disinfection systems employ thermal disinfection by
   circulating heated dry gases through portions of the gases flow path to the user interface. In
10 such embodiments, the main controller is configured to determine whether the oxygen
   concentration level in gases flow path is below a preset oxygen concentration level based on
   the sensed oxygen signal 188 prior to commencing any disinfection system or cleaning mode.
   For example, the main controller may be configured to prevent initiation of any cleaning
   mode until the sensed oxygen fraction is within a safe range, preferably below about 30%, to
15 minimize fire hazards.
           The oxygen signal 188 may additionally be used to automatically control the motor
   speed of the blower unit to alter the flow rate of the gases stream to thereby alter or modify
   the oxygen fraction to the desired level, or to halt operation of the device should the oxygen
   fraction move outside preset upper or lower thresholds.         Alternatively, the user of the
20 respiratory device may manually control the flow rate of the oxygen supply from the central
   gases source connected to the respiratory device to thereby vary the oxygen fraction based on
   real-time feedback from the displayed oxygen reading, without needing to estimate the
   oxygen fraction based on printed look-up tables.       In some embodiments, the respiratory
   device may have a valve that automatically alters or modifies the flow rate of the oxygen
25 supply from the central gases source to thereby vary the oxygen fraction. The main controller
   can receive the oxygen signal 188 and adjust the oxygen valve accordingly until a
   predetermined value for the oxygen signal 188 is reached, which corresponds to a desired
   oxygen fraction.
   Alternative ultrasound gas composition sensor system configurations
30         Referring to Figures 26A-26E, various alternative configurations of the ultrasonic
   transducers will be described for the gas composition sensing system for sensing the speed of

                                                 - 36
   sound through the gases stream by the transmission and reception of cross-flow ultrasonic
   beams or pulses. Like reference numerals, represent like components.
            Referring to Figure 26A, the transducer configuration 200 of the embodiment
   described above with reference to Figures 19-25 is schematically illustrated. As shown, the
 5 transducer configuration provides an arrangement in which there is a pair of transducers
   202,204 opposing each from opposite sides of the sensing passage 206, with the air flow path
   direction indicated generally by 208.      In this configuration 200, each of the transducers
   202,204 is driven as either a dedicated transmitter or receiver, such that ultrasonic pulses 210
   are transmitted uni-directionally across the air flow path from the transmitter to the receiver
10 transducer.     As shown, the transducer pair is aligned (i.e. not-displaced upstream or
   downstream from each other) relative to the air flow path direction 208 and is configured to
   transmit cross-flow pulses that are substantially perpendicular to the air flow path direction.
            Referring to Figure 26B, an alternative transducer configuration 220 is illustrated in
   which a pair of transducers 222,224 is provided opposing each other on opposite sides of the
15 sensing passage, but wherein each transducer may operate as both a transmitter and receiver,
   i.e. is an ultrasonic transmitter-receiver or transceiver.  In this configuration, bi-directional
   ultrasonic pulses 226 may be sent between the transducer pair 222,224. For example, pulses
   may be sent back and forth alternately between the transducers or in any other sequence or
   pattern. Again, the transducer pair is aligned relative to the air flow path direction and are
20 configured to transmit cross-flow pulses that are substantially perpendicular to the air flow
   path direction.
            Referring to Figure 26C, an alternative echo transducer configuration 230 is
   illustrated in which the transmitter and receiver transducer pair is provided in the form of a
   single ultrasonic transmitter-receiver transducer 232 that is provided on one side of the
25 sensing passage and which is configured to transmit cross-flow acoustic pulses 236 across the
   sensing passage 206 and receive the reflected pulse or echo reflected back from the opposite
   side of the sensing passage.
            Referring to Figure 26D, an alternative transducer configuration 240 is illustrated in
   which the transmitter transducer 242 and transmitter receiver 244 are displaced from one
30 another relative to the air flow path direction (i.e. one is upstream from the other) and on
   opposite sides of the sensing passage.      In Figure 26D, the receiver is upstream from the

                                                 - 37
   transmitter, although an opposite configuration could be employed. With this arrangement,
   the transmitter 242 may either transmit direct cross-flow pulses across the sensing passage
   206 to the receiver 244 as shown by beam 246, or may create a longer indirect path length by
   a reflected path comprising at least two reflections as indicated by beam 248. As shown, with
 5 this displaced configuration, the acoustic pulses have a cross-flow direction that is angularly
   traversing rather than substantially perpendicular to air flow path direction 208.    It will also
   be appreciated that while a uni-directional configuration is shown, the transducers 242,244
   may alternatively be ultrasonic transmitter-receivers to enable bi-directional beam pulses to
   be transmitted back and forth between the transducers (i.e. both upstream and downstream
10 relative to the air flow).
            Referring to Figure 26E, an alternative transducer configuration 250 is illustrated that
   is a modification of the configuration of Figure 26D where the transmitter 252 and receiver
   254 are again displaced from each other in the air flow direction 208 but where they are
   located on the same side of the sensing passage such that the transmitted cross-flow pulses
15 256 comprise at least one reflection (or multiple reflections for a longer path length) from the
   opposing side of the sensing passage 206. Otherwise, the same alternative options as that
   described with reference to Figure 26D apply, including bi-directional operation and
   switching the location of the transmitter and receiver.
            Referring to Figures 27A-27C, various further alternative configurations of the
20 ultrasonic transducers will be described for the gas composition sensing system for sensing
   the speed of sound through the gases stream by the transmission and reception of along-flow
   ultrasonic beams or pulses. Like reference numerals represent like components.
            Referring to Figure 27A, an alternative transducer configuration 260 is illustrated in
   which there is a pair of transducers 262,264 opposing each other from opposite ends of the
25 sensing passage 206, with the air flow path direction or axis indicated generally by 208. In
   this configuration 260, each of the transducers 262,264 is driven as either a dedicated
   transmitter or receiver, such that along-flow ultrasonic pulses 266 are transmitted uni
   directionally in a beam path between the transmitter and receiver that is substantially aligned
   or parallel with the gases flow path axis 208 in the sensing passage 206. In the embodiment
30 shown, the transmitter is upstream of the receiver, but it will be appreciated that the opposite
   arrangement could be employed. With this configuration, a flow rate sensor is provided in

                                                 - 38
   the sensing passage to provide a flow rate signal indicative of the flow rate of the gases
   stream in the sensing passage. It will be appreciated that the speed of sound in the sensing
   passage can be derived or determined in a similar manner to that previously described with
   the previous embodiments, and that the flow rate signal is utilized in the signal processing to
 5 remove or compensate for the gases flow rate in the calculated speed of sound signal.
            Referring to Figure 27B, an alternative transducer configuration 270 is illustrated in
   which a pair of transducers 272,274 is provided opposing each other from opposite ends of
   the sensing passage like in Figure 27A, but wherein each transducer may operate as both a
   transmitter and receiver, i.e. is an ultrasonic transmitter-receiver or transceiver.        In this
10 configuration, bi-directional along-flow ultrasonic pulses 276 may be sent between the
   transducer pair 272,274. For example, pulses may be sent back and forth alternately between
   the transducers or in any other sequence or pattern. Again, the transducer pair are aligned
   with the air flow path axis 208 and are configured to transmit cross-flow pulses in a beam
   path or paths that are substantially aligned or parallel to the air flow path axis 208 in the
15 sensing passage 206. With this configuration, a separate flow rate sensor need not necessarily
   be provided, as the flow rate component of the speed of sound signal can be directly derived
   or determined from processing of the transmitted and received acoustic pulses.
            Referring to Figure 27C, an alternative echo transducer configuration 280 is
   illustrated in which the transmitter and receiver transducer pair is provided in the form of a
20 single ultrasonic transmitter-receiver transducer 282 that is provided at one end of the sensing
   passage (whether at the start or end) and which is configured to transmit along-flow acoustic
   pulses 286 along the sensing passage 206 in a beam path substantially aligned or parallel to
   the air flow axis 208 and receive the reflected pulse or echo reflected back from the opposite
   end of the sensing passage. In the embodiment shown, the transmitter-receiver 282 is shown
25 at the end of the passage, but it could alternatively be located at the start of the passage. Like
   the configuration of Figure 27A, a flow rate sensor is provided in the sensing passage to
   enable the speed of sound calculation to compensate for the air flow rate component.
            With the alternative configurations of Figures 26B-26E and 27A-27C, it will be
   appreciated that the driver and receiver circuitry, and signal processing, can be adapted
30 accordingly for the sensing of the speed of sound in the sensing passage, which is then in turn
   used to determine the gas composition as previously explained.

                                                 - 39
   PREFERRED FEATURES:
           1. A respiratory assistance apparatus configured to provide a heated and humidified
   gases stream, comprising: a gases inlet configured to receive a supply of gases; a blower unit
   configured to generate a pressurised gases stream from the supply of gases; a humidification
 5 unit configured to heat and humidify the pressurised gases stream; a gases outlet for the
   heated and humidified gases stream; a flow path for the gases stream through the respiratory
   device from the gases inlet through the blower unit and humidification unit to the gases
   outlet;
   a sensor assembly provided in the flow path before the humidification unit, the sensor
10 assembly comprising an ultrasound gas composition sensor system for sensing one or more
   gas concentrations within the gases stream.
        2.  A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 1 wherein the ultrasound
   gas composition sensor system comprises a transmitter and receiver transducer pair that are
   operable to transmit cross-flow acoustic pulses from the transmitter to the receiver through
15 the gases stream for sensing the speed of sound in the gases stream in the vicinity of the
   sensor assembly.
        3.  A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 2 wherein the transmitter
   and receiver transducer pair are arranged such that the acoustic pulses traverse the gases
   stream in a direction substantially perpendicular to the flow direction of the gases stream.
20      4.  A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 2 wherein the transmitter
   and receiver transducer pair are arranged such that the acoustic pulses traverse the gases
   stream in a cross-flow that is angled but not perpendicular with respect to the flow direction
   of the gases stream.
        5.  A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 2-4 wherein
25 the transmitter and receiver transducer pair comprises a transducer that is configured as a
   transmitter and a transducer that is configured as a receiver for transmitting uni-directional
   acoustic pulses.
        6.  A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 2-4 wherein
   the transmitter and receiver transducer pair comprises a pair of transmitter-receiver
30 transducers that are configured for transmitting bi-directional acoustic pulses.

                                                - 40
        7.   A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 5 or paragraph 6 wherein
   the transmitter and receiver are aligned with each other in relation to the flow direction of the
   gases stream and facing each other on opposite sides of the flow path.
        8. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 5 or paragraph 6 wherein
 5 the transmitter and receiver are displaced from each other in the flow direction of the gases
   stream.
           9.   A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 8 wherein the acoustic
   pulses have a beam path that is direct between the transmitter and receiver.
           10. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 8 wherein the acoustic
10 pulses have a beam path that is indirect between the transmitter and receiver and which
   undergoes one or more reflections.
           11. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 2-4
   wherein the transmitter and receiver transducer pair is in the form of a single transmitter
   receiver that is configured to transmit cross-flow acoustic pulses and receive the echo return
15 pulses.
           12. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 2 wherein the
   ultrasound gas composition sensor system comprises a transmitter and receiver transducer
   pair that are operable to transmit along-flow acoustic pulses from the transmitter to the
   receiver through the gases stream for sensing the speed of sound in the gases stream in the
20 vicinity of the sensor assembly.
           13. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 2-12 further
   comprising a sensor control system that is operatively connected to the transmitter and
   receiver transducer pair of the ultrasound gas composition sensor system and which is
   configured to operate the transducer pair to sense and generate a speed of sound signal
25 indicative of the speed of sound through the gases stream.
           14. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 13 wherein the sensor
   control system is configured to generate one or more gas concentration signals indicative of
   the gas concentration within the gases stream based at least on the signal indicative of the
   speed of sound though the gases stream.
30         15. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 13 or paragraph 14
   wherein the sensor assembly further comprises a temperature sensor that is configured to

                                                  - 41
   measure the temperature of the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly and
   generate a representative temperature signal, and wherein the sensor control system is
   configured to generate one or more gas concentration signals indicative of the gas
   concentration within the gases stream based on the speed of sound signal and the temperature
 5 signal.
           16. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 13 or paragraph 14
   wherein the sensor assembly further comprises a humidity sensor that is configured to
   measure the humidity in the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly and generate a
   representative humidity signal, and wherein the sensor control system is configured to
10 generate one or more gas concentration signals indicative of the gas concentration within the
   gases stream based on the speed of sound signal and the humidity signal.
           17. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 13 or paragraph 14
   wherein the sensor assembly further comprises a temperature sensor that is configured to
   measure the temperature of the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly and
15 generate a representative temperature signal and a humidity sensor that is configured to
   measure the humidity in the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly and generate a
   representative humidity signal, and wherein the sensor control system is configured to
   generate one or more gas concentration signals indicative of the gas concentration within the
   gases stream based on the speed of sound signal, temperature signal, and humidity signal.
20         18. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 15 or paragraph 17
   wherein the sensor control system is configured to apply a temperature correction to the
   temperature signal to compensate for any predicted temperature sensing error created by heat
   within the respiratory device that affects the temperature sensor.
           19. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 18 wherein the sensor
25 assembly further comprises a flow rate sensor that is configured to sense the flow rate of the
   gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly and generate a representative flow rate
   signal; and the system further comprises: a motor speed sensor being provided that is
   configured to sense the motor speed of the blower unit and generate a representative motor
   speed signal, and wherein the temperature correction is calculated by the sensor control
30 system based at least on the flow rate signal and/or motor speed signal.

                                                  - 42
           20. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 13-19
   wherein the sensor control system is configured to generate a gas concentration signal
   representing the oxygen concentration in the gases stream.
           21. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 13-19
 5 wherein the sensor control system is configured to generate a gas concentration signal
   representing the carbon dioxide concentration in the gases stream.
           22. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 1-21
   wherein the sensor assembly is releasably mounted within the flow path.
           23. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 1-22
10 wherein the flow path is shaped or configured to promote stable flow of the gases stream in at
   least one section or portion of the flow path.
           24. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 23 wherein the flow
   path is shaped or configured to promote stable flow in a section or portion of the flow path
   containing the sensor assembly.
15         25. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 23 or paragraph 24
   wherein the flow path comprises one or more flow directors at or toward the gases inlet.
           26. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 25 wherein each flow
   director is in the form of an arcuate fin.
           27. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 23-26
20 wherein the flow path comprises at least one spiral portion or section to promote stable flow
   of the gases stream.
           28. A respirator assistance apparatus according to paragraph 27 wherein the flow path
   comprises an inlet section that extends between the gases inlet and the blower unit and the
   inlet section comprises at least one spiral portion.
25         29. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 27 or paragraph 28
   wherein the sensor assembly is located in a spiral portion of the flow path.
           30. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to paragraph 29 wherein the spiral
   portion comprises one or more substantially straight sections, and the sensor assembly is
   located in one of the straight sections.
30         31. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 2-30
   wherein the sensor assembly comprises a sensor housing comprising a main body that is

                                                 - 43
   hollow and defined by peripheral walls that extend between a first open end and a second
   open end to thereby define a sensing passage in the main body between the walls through
   which the gases stream may flow in the direction of a flow axis extending between the first
   and second ends of the main body and wherein the transmitter and receiver transducer pair
 5 are located on opposite walls or sides of the sensing passage.
            32. A respiratory apparatus according to paragraph 31 wherein the sensor housing
   comprises: a main body comprising two spaced-apart side walls, upper and lower walls
   extending between the side walls to define the sensing passage along the main body between
   its first and second ends; and a pair of transducer mounting assemblies located on opposing
10 walls of the main body, which are each configured to receive and retain a respective
   transducer of the transducer pair such that they are aligned, and face each other, across the
   sensing passage of the main body.
            33. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 1-32
   wherein the blower unit is operable to generate a gases stream at the gases outlet having a
15 flow rate of up to 100 litres-per-minute.
            34. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 1-33
   wherein the gases inlet is configured to receive a supply of gases comprising a mixture of
   atmospheric air and pure oxygen from an oxygen supply.
20          35. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 1-33
   wherein the gases inlet is configured to receive a supply of gases comprising a mixture of
   atmospheric air and carbon dioxide from a carbon dioxide supply.
            36. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of paragraphs 1-35
   wherein the flow path is in the bulk flow path of the apparatus.
25          37. A sensor assembly for in-line flow path sensing of a gases stream in a respiratory
   assistance apparatus comprising: a sensor housing comprising a main body that is hollow and
   defined by peripheral walls that extend between a first open end and a second open end, to
   thereby define a sensing passage in the main body between the walls, through which the gases
   stream may flow in the direction of a flow axis extending between the first and second ends
30 of the main body; an ultrasound gas composition sensor system mounted in the sensor
   housing for sensing one or more gas concentrations within the gases stream flowing in the

                                                 -44
   sensing passage; a temperature sensor mounted in the sensor housing for sensing the
   temperature of the gases stream flowing in the sensing passage; and a flow rate sensor
   mounted in the sensor housing for sensing the flow rate of the gases stream flowing in the
   sending passage.
 5          38. A sensor assembly according to paragraph 37 wherein the sensor housing is
   configured for releasable engagement into a complementary retaining aperture in the flow
   path of the respiratory assistance apparatus.
            39. A sensor assembly according to paragraph 37 or paragraph 38 wherein the
   ultrasound gas composition sensor system comprises a transmitter and receiver transducer
10 pair that are operable to transmit acoustic pulses from the transmitter to the receiver through
   the gases stream in a direction substantially perpendicular to the flow axis of the gases stream
   flowing through the sensing passage.
            40. A sensor assembly according to paragraph 39 wherein the transmitter and receiver
   transducer pair are located on opposite walls or sides of the sensing passage.
15          41. A sensor assembly according to paragraph 39 or paragraph 40 wherein the main
   body of the sensor housing comprises two spaced-apart side walls, and upper and lower walls
   that extend between the side walls to define the sensing passage along the main body between
   its first and second ends; and a pair of transducer mounting assemblies located on opposing
   walls of the main body, which are each configured to receive and retain a respective
20 transducer of the transducer pair such that they are aligned, and face each other, across the
   sensing passage of the main body.
            42. A sensor assembly according to paragraph 41 wherein the pair of transducer
   mounting assemblies are located on opposite side walls of the main body, and wherein each
   transducer mounting assembly comprises a retaining cavity within which a respective
25 transducer of the pair are received and retained.
            43. A sensor assembly according to paragraph 42 wherein each transducer mounting
   assembly comprises a cylindrical base portion that extends from a respective side wall of the
   main body and at least one pair of opposed clips that extend from the base portion, the base
   portion and clips collectively defining the retaining cavity.
30          44. A sensor assembly according to paragraph 43 wherein each side wall of the main
   body comprises a transducer aperture which is co-aligned with its associated transducer

                                               - 45
   mounting assembly and through which the front operating face of the transducer may extend
   to access the sensing passage.
           45.     A sensor assembly according to paragraph 44 wherein the transducer
   mounting assemblies are configured to locate their respective transducers such that the
 5 operating faces of the transducers are substantially flush with the inner surface of their
   respective wall of the main body of the sensor housing.
           The foregoing description of the invention includes preferred forms thereof.
   Modifications may be made thereto without departing from the scope of the invention as
   defined by the accompanying claims.
10

                                                   - 46
   CLAIMS
           1. A respiratory assistance apparatus configured to provide a heated and humidified
   gases stream, comprising:
                    a gases inlet configured to receive a supply of gases;
 5                  a blower unit configured to generate a pressurised gases stream from the
           supply of gases;
                    a humidification unit configured to heat and humidify the pressurised gases
           stream;
                    a gases outlet for the heated and humidified gases stream;
10                  a flow path for the gases stream through the respiratory device from the gases
           inlet through the blower unit and humidification unit to the gases outlet;
                    a sensor assembly provided in the flow path before the humidification unit, the
           sensor assembly comprising an ultrasound gas composition sensor system for sensing
           one or more gas concentrations within the gases stream.
15
           2. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the ultrasound gas
   composition sensor system comprises a transmitter and receiver transducer pair that are
   operable to transmit cross-flow acoustic pulses from the transmitter to the receiver through
   the gases stream for sensing the speed of sound in the gases stream in the vicinity of the
20 sensor assembly.
           3. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the transmitter
   and receiver transducer pair are arranged such that the acoustic pulses traverse the gases
   stream in a direction substantially perpendicular to the flow direction of the gases stream.
25
           4. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the transmitter
   and receiver transducer pair are arranged such that the acoustic pulses traverse the gases
   stream in a cross-flow that is angled but not perpendicular with respect to the flow direction
   of the gases stream.
30
           5. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims 2-4 wherein the
   transmitter and receiver transducer pair comprises a transducer that is configured as a

                                                  - 47
   transmitter and a transducer that is configured as a receiver for transmitting uni-directional
   acoustic pulses.
           6. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims 2-4 wherein the
 5 transmitter and receiver transducer pair comprises a pair of transmitter-receiver transducers
   that are configured for transmitting bi-directional acoustic pulses.
           7. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the
   transmitter and receiver are aligned with each other in relation to the flow direction of the
10 gases stream and facing each other on opposite sides of the flow path.
           8. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the
   transmitter and receiver are displaced from each other in the flow direction of the gases
   stream.
15
           9. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the acoustic
   pulses have a beam path that is direct between the transmitter and receiver.
            10. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the acoustic
20 pulses have a beam path that is indirect between the transmitter and receiver and which
   undergoes one or more reflections.
            11. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims 2-4 wherein the
   transmitter and receiver transducer pair is in the form of a single transmitter-receiver that is
25 configured to transmit cross-flow acoustic pulses and receive the echo return pulses.
            12. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the ultrasound gas
   composition sensor system comprises a transmitter and receiver transducer pair that are
   operable to transmit along-flow acoustic pulses from the transmitter to the receiver through
30 the gases stream for sensing the speed of sound in the gases stream in the vicinity of the
   sensor assembly.
            13. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims 2-12 further
   comprising a sensor control system that is operatively connected to the transmitter and

                                                -48
   receiver transducer pair of the ultrasound gas composition sensor system and which is
   configured to operate the transducer pair to sense and generate a speed of sound signal
   indicative of the speed of sound through the gases stream.
 5         14. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the sensor
   control system is configured to generate one or more gas concentration signals indicative of
   the gas concentration within the gases stream based at least on the signal indicative of the
   speed of sound though the gases stream.
10         15. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the
   sensor assembly further comprises a temperature sensor that is configured to measure the
   temperature of the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly and generate a
   representative temperature signal, and wherein the sensor control system is configured to
   generate one or more gas concentration signals indicative of the gas concentration within the
15 gases stream based on the speed of sound signal and the temperature signal.
           16. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the
   sensor assembly further comprises a humidity sensor that is configured to measure the
   humidity in the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly and generate a
20 representative humidity signal, and wherein the sensor control system is configured to
   generate one or more gas concentration signals indicative of the gas concentration within the
   gases stream based on the speed of sound signal and the humidity signal.
           17. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the
25 sensor assembly further comprises a temperature sensor that is configured to measure the
   temperature of the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly and generate a
   representative temperature signal and a humidity sensor that is configured to measure the
   humidity in the gases stream in the vicinity of the sensor assembly and generate a
   representative humidity signal, and wherein the sensor control system is configured to
30 generate one or more gas concentration signals indicative of the gas concentration within the
   gases stream based on the speed of sound signal, temperature signal, and humidity signal.

                                                - 49
           18. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims 13-17 wherein
   the sensor control system is configured to generate a gas concentration signal representing the
   oxygen concentration in the gases stream.
 5         19. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims 13-17 wherein
   the sensor control system is configured to generate a gas concentration signal representing the
   carbon dioxide concentration in the gases stream.
           20. A respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims 2-19 wherein
10 the sensor assembly comprises a sensor housing comprising a main body that is hollow and
   defined by peripheral walls that extend between a first open end and a second open end to
   thereby define a sensing passage in the main body between the walls through which the gases
   stream may flow in the direction of a flow axis extending between the first and second ends
   of the main body and wherein the transmitter and receiver transducer pair are located on
15 opposite walls or sides of the sensing passage.
           21. A respiratory apparatus according to claim 20 wherein the sensor housing
   comprises:
                  a main body comprising two spaced-apart side walls, upper and lower walls
20         extending between the side walls to define the sensing passage along the main body
          between its first and second ends; and
                  a pair of transducer mounting assemblies located on opposing walls of the
           main body, which are each configured to receive and retain a respective transducer of
          the transducer pair such that they are aligned, and face each other, across the sensing
25        passage of the main body.

                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2a
          10
                         3
                                          5
     4a
                                                   1/19
                               1
          FIGURE 1
           (prior art)

                           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
6
                       3
                                            5
                  4b
                                                 2/19
                                  1
    FIGURE 2
    (prior art)

<removed-date>
                                        3/19                       10
                                   12
                                                                             13
                              16
<removed-apn>
                        14
                                                                    28
                         15
                                                              26
                                                    18
                                               17
                              11
                                        19
                                   FIGURE 3
                                                                   10
                                                                        28
                   17
                                                                                  B
               A
                                                                                  13
              11
                                                                         20
                                                         26
                                   FIGURE 4

<removed-date>
                         4/19
                                     12              10
                                          18
<removed-apn>
                   14
                                                28
                   16
                   17
                                                26
                        FIGURE 5
                                12                    10
                   28
                                               24
              26                               22
                                     20
                        FIGURE 6

<removed-date>
                          5/19            11
                                                         10
<removed-apn>    FIGURE 7                              26a
                                         13
                                          13
                                    20
                                                         30
                         28a                                  10
                                                        12
              FIGURE 8
                           16
                                                   18
                               17
                                              11

<removed-date>
                                          6/19                  30    10
                               32        12
                         23
                                                                           13
<removed-apn>
                    16
                                                                      31
              14
                                                                      26
                                                           25
                                                      18
               11
                                                 17
                              19
                                         FIGURE 9
                                                                                10
                                    35
                                                                34
                         14
                                                                 26
                                          FIGURE 10

<removed-date>
                         7/19
                                     28
                                          32
<removed-apn>
              11
                                                    13
                                37
                          35         34
                   14                          20
                        FIGURE 10A

<removed-date>
                              8/19
                        10
                                          38
                                                    36a
                   14
<removed-apn>
                                                              20
                                     36
                                               26
                             FIGURE 11
              10
                                               36a
                                                          C
                   14
                                                     36
                             FIGURE 12

<removed-date>
                            9/19
                                        36
                    36a
<removed-apn>
                      38
                                        14
                           FIGURE 13
              14
               36
                                   58
                           FIGURE 14

<removed-date>
                                           10/19
<removed-apn>
                                                                       14
              36
                                                                             56
              36a                                                           54
                             50
                                  X
               38                     52
                             Y                          44
                                                                        W
                   48
                                                                  42
                        60                                       46
                                                             X
                                                   58
                                  FIGURE 15

<removed-date>
                              11/19
                                              14
<removed-apn>
                    36                         56
                                               54
                                          60
                             FIGURE 16
                                         60             58
                   56
                                                   61
              54
                         H
                             FIGURE 17

<removed-date>
                                    12/19
                                                                      14
<removed-apn>
                   36a
                                                                      43
                         38
                                                                       36
                    51
                                              F
                          53                                          41
                                    F
                                                   E
                                                                 39
                         60              E
                               45                           47
                                             49        58
                                    FIGURE 18A
              14
              36                              49
                                        58
                               FIGURE 18B

<removed-date>
                          13/19
<removed-apn>
                                           14
                                                     36
                                                 60
              36a
                    51
                                                47
                                      49
                          45
                               58
                         FIGURE 18C

<removed-date>
                                                        14/19
                                                                      62
                                                  80
                                            63                             68
                                                                                       92a
                                      78                                                     92
<removed-apn>
                            90                               D
                                                                                 66a
                                                             W
                                                                                 66
                                90a                                    70
                                                  64
                                                 FIGURE 19
                                                                       63
                                                       68                       84
                                 82                                                    102b
                                                                                                  92
                                                                                                   102a
                                                       110
              100a
                                                                                                  102
                     100
                                       64                                       66
                           90                    86              70        66b
                                                                                                  112
                                                 FIGURE 20

<removed-date>
                          15/19
                                     62
                                    70
<removed-apn>
              74                          76
                        FIGURE 21
                   92
                                     62
               68                   80
                   63
              74                          76
                                    78
                   90
                        FIGURE 22

<removed-date>
                                                   16/19
                                                                                            62
                                         63                  68
                                    64
                                                                            66
                                                                                  92b
                              90b
<removed-apn>    90c                                  90d 92d
                                                                                                 92c
              96
                    97
                                                                                       92
                         90
                               94             86
                                                                  70
                                              FIGURE 23
                                                                                      62
                                                                       64
                                                   90c
                         74                                                      76
                                              FIGURE 24

                                                                      <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                           SENSOR CONTROL SYSTEM                              150
                 154
                          152                      GAS COMPOSITION      174
                 FLOW
                 RATE
182                                                               180
                                      160
                                                          ANALYSER                  188
                                             164
                           TEMPERATURE
                 158                                      171         173
184              MOTOR    156                        DRIVER     RECEIVER
                 SPEED
                                                   170          172                                17/19
                                           186
      152        156            162                      176             178
 FLOW             MOTOR         TEMPERATURE        ULTRASONIC  ULTRASONIC
 RATE             SPEED         SENSOR             TRANSMITTER RECEIVER
 SENSOR           SENSOR              82                 100            102
            84           120
                                FIGURE 25

<removed-date>
                                          18/19
                                                           208    206                  200
                    FIGURE 26A            202   TX               RX 204
                                                           210
<removed-apn>
                                                           208     206                 220
                    FIGURE 26B
                                      222 TX/RX                  TX/RX 224
                                                           210
                                                           208     206           230
                    FIGURE 26C
                                      232 TX/RX
                                                           236
                                                     250
              240
                           208      206                            208          206
                                   RX 244              254 RX
                    246
               242    TX
                                                       252 TX
                             248                                          256
                     FIGURE 26D                             FIGURE 26E

<removed-date>
                           19/19
                                         264
                                    RX
                                                     260
                             266
                                               206
<removed-apn>
              FIGURE 27A                       208
                                    TX
                                         262
                                   TX/RX 274
                                                     270
                            276
                                               206
              FIGURE 27B                       208
                                   TX/RX 272
                                   TX/RX 282
                                                     280
                             286
                                               206
                                               208
              FIGURE 27C

