                                       ABSTRACT
     Described embodiments are directed toward prosthetic valves having leaflets
that move asymmetrically in that a leaflet second side region of the leaflet initially
moves toward the open position before a leaflet first side region and the leaflet first
side region initially moves toward the closed position before the leaflet second side
region. In the fully open position, the leaflet first side region opens less than the
leaflet second side region. Asymmetric opening and final open position, in
synchrony with the other leaflets having the same motion and final open position
creates spiral flow exiting the open valve that increases blood flow on the
downstream side of the leaflet and thus reduces stagnation of the blood that might
lead to thrombus formation. Controlled asymmetric movement of the leaflet reduces
closing volume by initiating closure on the leaflet first side region and finishing
closures on the leaflet second side region.

         2/14
                             100
           193
     148            142     1g1
               184a     140        136
                                    133
                                    184b
                                1141b
                               FI.  182
                                     130
                                     143
                                   134
149
          141a
    FIG. 1B

      ASYMMETRIC OPENING AND CLOSING PROSTHETIC VALVE LEAFLET
                                            FIELD
     [0001]     This is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2014360294, the original disclosures of which is incorporated herein by reference.
The present disclosure relates generally to prosthetic valves and more specifically,
synthetic flexible leaflet-type prosthetic valve devices and methods.
                                         Background
     [0002]     Bioprosthetic valves have been developed that attempt to mimic the
function and performance of a native valve. Flexible leaflets are fabricated from
biological tissue such as bovine pericardium. In some valve designs the biological
tissue is sewn onto a relatively rigid frame that supports the leaflets and provides
dimensional stability when implanted. Although bioprosthetic valves can provide
excellent hemodynamic and biomechanical performance in the short term, they are
prone to calcification and cusp tears, among other failure modes, requiring
reoperation and replacement.
     [0003]     Attempts have been made to use synthetic materials, such as
polyurethane, among others, as a substitute for the biological tissue, to provide a
more durable flexible leaflet prosthetic valve, herein referred to as a synthetic leaflet
valve (SLV). However, synthetic leaflet valves have not become a valid valve
replacement option since they suffer premature failure, due to, among other things,
suboptimal design and lack of a durable synthetic material.
     [0004] The leaflets move under the influence of fluid pressure. In operation, the
leaflets open when the upstream fluid pressure exceeds the downstream fluid
pressure and close when the downstream fluid pressure exceeds the upstream fluid
pressure. The free edges of the leaflets coapt under the influence of downstream
fluid pressure closing the valve to prevent downstream blood from flowing retrograde
through the valve.
     [0005]     It has been found that in some very flexible leaflet prosthetic valves,
the leaflets do not open and close in a controlled manner. The durability of the
leaflets is largely controlled by the character of bending exhibited by the leaflet
during the opening-closing cycle. Small radius bends, creases and particularly
intersecting creases, can produce high stress zones in the leaflet. These high stress
zones can cause the formation of holes and tears under repetitive loading. If the
                                               1

leaflet bending is unrestricted, not only do creases form, but crease intersections
lead to formation of large three dimensional structures (e.g., surface disruptions) that
oppose bending and slow down the leaflet motion, both in opening and closing. This
slow down of leaflet motion leads to an increase in closing volume; that is, the
volume of blood that travels back through the valve during the closing phase in order
to close the valve. It is advantageous to minimize closing volume.
      [0006]    Further, the flexible nature of the very flexible leaflet can create regions
of blood pooling behind the leaflet when in the open position potentially causing
blood clots to form at the leaflet base and near the attachment of the leaflet to the
frame.
      [0007]    What is needed in the art is a flexible leaflet prosthetic valve that
provides a more controlled leaflet movement that reduces closing volume and
potential for blood pooling behind the leaflet and near any attachment of the leaflet to
a support structure.
                                         SUMMARY
      [0008]    Described embodiments are directed to flexible leaflet prosthetic heart
valves in which the leaflets move into the open and closed position in a more
controlled manner. Each leaflet moves asymmetrically in that a leaflet second side
region of the leaflet initially moves toward the open position before a leaflet first side
region and the leaflet first side region initially moves toward the closed position
before the leaflet second side region. Further, in the fully open position, the leaflet
first side region opens less than the leaflet second side region. Such asymmetric
opening and final open position, in synchrony with the other leaflets having the same
motion and final open position creates spiral flow exiting the open valve that assists
in creating an axial vortex flow that increases blood flow on the downstream side of
the leaflet and thus reduces stagnation of the blood that might lead to thrombus
formation. Further, controlled asymmetric movement of the leaflet reduces closing
volume by initiating closure on the leaflet first side region and finishing closures on
the leaflet second side region, reducing leaflet buckling resistance to closure by, in
part, allowing one region of the leaflet to close before another region. Further, the
leaflet open position is controlled such that fluid flow across the leaflet first side
region extends further into the valve orifice of the valve relative to the leaflet second
side region to further expose the leaflet downstream side to the retrograde blood flow
which increases washout of the blood from the leaflet downstream side and exposes
                                               2

the leaflet downstream side to improved reverse blood flow and to assist closing
during the closing phase.
     [0009]     Described embodiments are directed to flexible leaflet prosthetic valves
in which the leaflets have regions of increased stiffness relative to other regions of
the leaflet, so as to provide asymmetric opening and closing of the leaflet. The region
of increased stiffness provides that the leaflet moves into the open and closed
position in a more controlled manner. Further, the region of increased stiffness
positions the open leaflet so as to provide an increased blood flow behind the leaflet
and where the leaflet attaches to the leaflet frame.
     [0010]     In accordance with an embodiment, there is provided a prosthetic valve
comprising a plurality of leaflets including a first leaflet, each leaflet of the plurality of
leaflets defining a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side region opposite
from the leaflet first side region, each leaflet of the plurality of leaflets defining a
leaflet base and a leaflet free edge opposite from the leaflet base, each leaflet first
side region being coupled with the leaflet second side region of an adjacent leaflet at
a commissure, wherein the leaflet bases of the plurality of leaflets collectively define
an orifice when each of the leaflets are in a fully open position, and wherein the
leaflet second side region of the first leaflet extends further into the orifice than the
leaflet first side region of the first leaflets when the first leaflet is in the fully open
position.
     [0011]     In accordance with another embodiment, there is provided a prosthetic
valve comprising a plurality of leaflets that defines an orifice when the leaflets are in
a fully open position, each of the plurality of leaflets leaflet including a leaflet first side
region and a leaflet second side region opposite from the leaflet first side region,
wherein for each leaflet of the plurality of leaflet the leaflet first side region has a first
bending stiffness that is greater than a second bending stiffness of the leaflet second
side region, and wherein each leaflet opens asymmetrically such that the leaflet
second side regions are operable to initiate opening before the leaflet first side
regions, and wherein the leaflet first side regions are operable to initiate closing
before the leaflet second side regions, the leaflet first side region of a first leaflet
being coupled to a leaflet second side region of a second leaflet positioned adjacent
the first leaflet.
     [0012]     In accordance with another embodiment, there is provided a method of
forming a prosthetic valve, comprising:
                                              3

       providing a leaflet frame having a generally tubular shape, the leaflet frame
defining a frame outer surface and a plurality of leaflet windows wherein each of the
leaflet windows includes a leaflet window first side, a leaflet window second side
opposite from the leaflet window first side, a leaflet window base, and a leaflet
window top;
providing a film;
providing a mandrel;
wrapping a first film layer into a tubular form about the mandrel;
placing the leaflet frame over the first film layer;
everting the first film over the leaflet frame to cover the frame outer surface and
thereby defining an first assembly;
thermally setting the first assembly;
trimming the first film layer to define a leaflet reinforcing member that is at least a
portion of a leaflet first side region adjacent to and depending from the leaflet window
first side of a first leaflet window;
removing the first film layer from the first leaflet window that substantially defines a
leaflet central region and a leaflet second side region;
defining the leaflet first side region and removing those portions of the first film layer
from the first leaflet window that do not define the leaflet first side region;
forming a second film layer over the leaflet frame thereby defining a second
assembly;
thermally setting the second assembly;
receiving the second assembly over a mandrel; and
cutting the film across the leaflet window top within the leaflet window.
      [0013]     In accordance with another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises
a leaflet frame and a plurality of leaflets coupled to the leaflet frame. Each leaflet
has a free edge, a leaflet first side, a leaflet second side, and a leaflet base
therebetween. The leaflet first side, leaflet second side, and leaflet base are coupled
to the leaflet frame. Each leaflet has a leaflet first side region adjacent the leaflet
first side, a leaflet second side region adjacent the leaflet second side, and a leaflet
central region therebetween and adjacent the leaflet base. At least a portion of the
leaflet first side region has a stiffness that is greater than the stiffness of the leaflet
second side region and leaflet central region.
      [0014]     In accordance with another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises
a frame having a generally tubular shape with attached film. The frame defines a
                                               4

plurality of leaflet windows. Each leaflet window defines a leaflet window first side, a
leaflet window second side, and a leaflet window base. The leaflet window first side
and the leaflet window second side diverge from the leaflet window base. The film
defines at least one leaflet extending from each of the leaflet windows. Each leaflet
has a free edge, a leaflet first side that is coupled to the leaflet window first side, a
leaflet second side that is coupled to the leaflet window second side, and a leaflet
base therebetween that is coupled to the leaflet window base. Each leaflet has a
leaflet first side region adjacent the leaflet first side and extending to a substantially
axial line from the leaflet free edge to the intersection between the leaflet window
first side and the leaflet window base, a leaflet second region adjacent the leaflet
second side and extending to a substantially axial line from the leaflet free edge to
the intersection between the leaflet window second side and the leaflet window base,
and a leaflet central region therebetween and adjacent the leaflet free edge to the
leaflet base. At least a portion of the leaflet first side region has a stiffness that is
greater than the stiffness of the leaflet second region and leaflet central region.
      [0015]     In accordance with another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises
a plurality of leaflets where each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a
leaflet second side region opposite from the leaflet first side region. The leaflet first
side region has a thickness that is thicker than a thickness of the second side region.
      [0016]     In accordance with another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises
a plurality of leaflets where each leaflet includes a leaflet first side and a leaflet
second side opposite from the leaflet first side. Each leaflet first side is coupled with
the leaflet second side of an adjacent leaflet at a commissure. The plurality of
leaflets defines an orifice when the leaflets are in an open position. Each of the
leaflet first sides extends further into the orifice than each of the leaflet second sides
when the leaflets are in the open position.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      [0017]     The accompanying drawings are included to provide a further
understanding of the present disclosure and are incorporated in and constitute a part
of this specification, illustrate embodiments described herein, and together with the
description serve to explain the principles discussed in this disclosure.
      [0018]     FIG. 1A is a side view of a prosthetic valve in accordance with an
embodiment;
                                               5

     [0019]    FIG. 1B is a perspective view of the embodiment of the valve of FIG.
1A;
     [0020]    FIG. 1C is an axial view of the embodiment of the valve of FIG. 1A in
an open configuration;
     [0021]    FIG. 1D is an axial view of the embodiment of the prosthetic valve of
FIG. 2A in a partially open or partially closed configuration;
     [0022]    FIG. 1E is an axial view of the embodiment of the prosthetic valve of
FIG. 2A in a closed configuration;
     [0023]    FIG. 2A is a representation of an embodiment of a leaflet frame
unrolled to a flat orientation with a strain relief frame covering and leaflet reinforcing
member;
     [0024]    FIG. 2B is a representation of an embodiment of a leaflet frame
unrolled to a flat orientation of FIG. 2A with a strain relief frame covering and leaflet
reinforcing member, also with a leaflet;
     [0025]    FIG. 3A is a perspective view of another embodiment of a valve frame;
     [0026]    FIG. 3B is an axial view of the embodiment of the valve of FIG. 3A in
an open configuration;
     [0027]    FIG. 4A is a representation of an embodiment of a leaflet frame of the
embodiment of FIG. 3A unrolled to a flat orientation with a strain relief frame
covering and leaflet reinforcing member;
     [0028]    FIG. 4B is a representation of an embodiment of a leaflet frame
unrolled to a flat orientation of FIG. 3A with a strain relief frame covering and leaflet
reinforcing member, also with a leaflet;
     [0029]    FIG. 5A is a side view of the leaflet frame on an assembly mandrel, in
accordance with an embodiment;
     [0030]    FIG. 5B is a side view of the leaflet frame on an assembly mandrel, in
accordance with an embodiment;
     [0031]    FIG. 5C is a side view of the leaflet frame construct showing the strain
relief frame covering and leaflet reinforcing member, in accordance with an
embodiment;
     [0032]    FIG. 5D is a side view of the leaflet frame construct on an assembly
mandrel overlaid with leaflet material, in accordance with an embodiment;
     [0033]    FIG. 6A is a side view of the leaflet frame on a mandrel, in accordance
with an embodiment; and
                                              6

     [0034]     FIG. 6B is a perspective view of the leaflet frame on the mandrel of
FIG. 6A.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     [0035]     Persons skilled in the art will readily appreciate that various aspects of
the present disclosure can be realized by any number of methods and apparatus
configured to perform the intended functions. Stated differently, other methods and
apparatuses can be incorporated herein to perform the intended functions. It should
also be noted that the accompanying drawing figures referred to herein are not
necessarily drawn to scale, but may be exaggerated to illustrate various aspects of
the present disclosure, and in that regard, the drawing figures should not be
construed as limiting.
     [0036]    Although the embodiments herein may be described in connection with
various principles and beliefs, the described embodiments should not be bound by
theory. For example, embodiments are described herein in connection with
prosthetic valves, more specifically cardiac prosthetic valves. However,
embodiments within the scope of this disclosure can be applied toward any valve or
mechanism of similar structure and/or function. Furthermore, embodiments within
the scope of this disclosure can be applied in non-cardiac applications.
     [0037]    The term leaflet as used herein in the context of prosthetic valves is a
component of a one-way valve wherein the leaflet is operable to move between an
open and closed position under the influence of a pressure differential. In an open
position, the leaflet allows blood to flow through the valve. In a closed position, the
leaflet substantially blocks retrograde flow through the valve. In embodiments
comprising multiple leaflets, each leaflet cooperates with at least one neighboring
leaflet to block the retrograde flow of blood. The pressure differential in the blood is
caused, for example, by the contraction of a ventricle or atrium of the heart, such
pressure differential typically resulting from a fluid pressure building up on one side
of the leaflets when closed. As the pressure on an inflow side of the valve rises
above the pressure on the outflow side of the valve, the leaflets opens and blood
flows therethrough. As blood flows through the valve into a neighboring chamber or
blood vessel, the pressure on the inflow side equalizes with the pressure on the
outflow side. As the pressure on the outflow side of the valve rises above the blood
pressure on the inflow side of the valve, the leaflet returns to the closed position
generally preventing retrograde flow of blood through the valve.
                                               7

     [0038]    The term membrane as used herein refers to a sheet of material
comprising a single composition, such as, but not limited to, expanded
fluoropolymer.
     [0039]    The term composite material as used herein refers to a combination of
a membrane, such as, but not limited to, expanded fluoropolymer, and an elastomer,
such as, but not limited to, a fluoroelastomer. The elastomer may be imbibed within a
porous structure of the membrane, coated on one or both sides of the membrane, or
a combination of coated on and imbibed within the membrane.
     [0040]    The term laminate as used herein refers to multiple layers of
membrane, composite material, or other materials, such as elastomer, and
combinations thereof.
     [0041]    The term film as used herein generically refers to one or more of the
membrane, composite material, or laminate.
     [0042]    The term biocompatible material as used herein generically refers to a
film or a biological material, such as, but not limited to, bovine pericardium.
     [0043]    The term leaflet window is defined as that space that a frame defines
from which a leaflet extends. The leaflet may extend from frame elements or
adjacent to frame elements and spaced apart therefrom.
     [0044]    The terms native valve orifice and tissue orifice refer to an anatomical
structure into which a prosthetic valve may be placed. Such anatomical structure
includes, but is not limited to, a location wherein a cardiac valve may or may not
have been surgically removed. It is understood that other anatomical structures that
may receive a prosthetic valve include, but are not limited to, veins, arteries, ducts
and shunts. Although reference is made herein to replacing a native valve with a
prosthetic valve, it is understood and appreciated that a valve orifice or implant site
may also refer to a location in a synthetic or biological conduit that may receive a
valve for a particular purpose, and therefore the scope of the embodiments provided
herein is not limited to valve replacement.
     [0045]    As used herein, "couple" means to join, connect, attach, adhere, affix,
or bond, whether directly or indirectly, and whether permanently or temporarily.
     [0046]     Embodiments herein include various apparatus, systems, and methods
for a prosthetic valve suitable for surgical and transcatheter placement, such as, but
not limited to, cardiac valve replacement. The valve is operable as a one-way valve
wherein the valve defines a valve orifice into which leaflets open to permit flow and
                                             8

close so as to occlude the valve orifice and prevent flow in response to differential
fluid pressure.
      [0047]    Described embodiments are directed to flexible leaflet prosthetic valves
in which the leaflets move into the open and closed position in a more controlled
manner. The leaflets move in synchrony with each other. Each leaflet moves
asymmetrically in that a leaflet second side region of the leaflet initially moves toward
the open position before a leaflet first side region and the leaflet first side region
initially moves toward the closed position before the leaflet second side region.
Further, in the fully open position, the leaflet first side opens less than the leaflet
second side. The leaflet first side region of one leaflet is adjacent to the leaflet
second side region of an adjacent leaflet. Such asymmetric opening and final open
position, in synchrony with the other leaflets having the same motion and final open
position, creates spiral flow exiting the open valve that assists in creating an axial
vortex flow that increases blood flow on the downstream side of the leaflet and thus
reduces stagnation of the blood that might lead to thrombus formation. Further,
controlled asymmetric movement of the leaflet reduces closing volume by initiating
closure on the leaflet first side region and finishing closures on the leaflet second
side region, reducing leaflet buckling resistance to closure by, in part, allowing one
side region of the leaflet to close before another side region. Further, the leaflet
open position is controlled such that the leaflet first side region extends further into
the valve orifice of the valve relative to the leaflet second side region to further
expose the leaflet downstream side to the retrograde blood flow which increases
washout of the blood from the leaflet downstream side and exposes the leaflet
downstream side to improved reverse blood flow and to assist closing during the
closing phase.
      [0048]    In accordance with embodiments provided herein, at least a portion of
the leaflet first side region is configured to be more resistant to motion as compared
with the leaflet second side region. The resistant to motion may be affected in a
number of ways, including, but not limited to, configuring the bending modulus of the
leaflet material to have a higher bending modulus in the leaflet first side region as
compared with the leaflet second side region. The resistant to motion may be
affected in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, adding a reinforcing
member that is separate from but coupled to the leaflet first side region. The
resistant to motion may be affected in a number of ways, including, but not limited to,
increasing the number of layers of a laminated composite that makes up the leaflet,
                                              9

and thus the thickness in the leaflet first side region as compared with the leaflet
second side region.
      [0049]    Embodiments provided herein address controlled leaflet opening and
closing. Embodiments provided herein provide a feature of differing leaflet stiffness
from one side region of the leaflet to the other side region. The less stiff side region
of the leaflet will initiate opening before the stiffer side of the leaflet. Therefore, the
leaflet will open asymmetrically with respect to the leaflet free edge rather than
symmetrically as with a leaflet having a uniform or symmetric stiffness property. This
asymmetric movement minimizes crease formation, which is of particular importance
in thin, high-modulus leaflets. If the leaflet bending is unrestricted, not only may
creases form, but crease intersections lead to formation of large three dimensional
structures (e.g., surface disruptions) that oppose bending and slow down the leaflet
motion, both in opening and closing. Embodiments provided herein control leaflet
opening and to minimize crease formation provided by the controlled asymmetric
opening and closing of the leaflet.
      [0050]    Embodiments provided herein address blood pooling or stagnation that
can lead to clot formation behind the leaflet and along the intersection of the leaflet
and the frame when the leaflet is open. Embodiments provided herein provide a
feature of differing leaflet stiffness from one side region of the leaflet to the other side
region. The stiffer side region of the leaflet will open to a lesser extent than the less
stiff side region. Since the stiffer side region of the leaflet does not open fully and
therefore protrudes into the flow more so than the less stiff side region, retrograde
blood flow may better extend behind the leaflet, the downstream side, producing a
washing effect along the attachment of the leaflet to the frame and, in particular, at
the base of the leaflet on the downstream side of the leaflet. Since the stiffer side
region of the leaflet protrudes into the retrograde flow more so than the less stiff side
region, when the flow reverses, the stiffer leaflet side region protruding into the flow
will actuate the closing of the valve much sooner and in a more controlled manner.
Therefore, the leaflet will close asymmetrically from the more stiff side region to the
less stiff side region with respect to the leaflet free edge rather than randomly and
chaotically as with a very thin and flexible leaflet having a uniform or symmetric
stiffness property. This asymmetric movement minimizes crease formation and
provides a faster closing response, which is of particular importance in thin, high
modulus leaflets. Embodiments provided herein control leaflet closing that provides
                                              10

minimization of crease formation and a faster closing response provided by the
controlled asymmetric closing of the leaflet.
                 Valve
      [0051]     FIG. 1A is a side view of a valve 100, in accordance with an
embodiment. FIG. 1B is a perspective view of the valve 100 of FIG. 1A. FIGs. 1C,
1D and 1E are axial views of the valve 100 of FIG. 1A in an open, partially open, and
closed configuration, respectively. The valve 100 comprises a leaflet frame 130 and
film 160 that defines leaflets 140. In FIGs. 1A, 1B and 1E, the leaflets 140 are
shown slightly open to better show the features but it is understood that a valve 100
that is fully closed will have the leaflet free edges 142 of the leaflets 140 coming
together to coapt under the influence of downstream fluid pressure which results in
closing the valve 100 to prevent downstream blood from flowing retrograde through
the valve 100.
                 Frame
      [0052]     Referring to FIGs. 1A-1E, the leaflet frame 130 is a generally tubular
member, in accordance with an embodiment. The leaflet frame 130 comprises a
leaflet frame first end 121 a and a frame second end 121 b opposite the leaflet frame
first end 121 a. The leaflet frame 130 comprises a leaflet frame outer surface 126a
and a leaflet frame inner surface 126b opposite the leaflet frame outer surface 126a,
as shown in FIG. 1A. The leaflet frame 130 defines commissure posts 136 that
couple to the leaflet free edges 142. The commissure posts 136 are defined by a
vertical element 122.
      [0053]     FIGs. 2A and 2B are side views of a leaflet frame 130 of a valve 100
wherein the leaflet frame 130 has been longitudinally cut and laid open to better
illustrate the elements of the generally tubular-shaped leaflet frame 130, in
accordance with an embodiment. In FIG. 2A, a leaflet reinforcing member 149 is
shown in dashed line to represent where the leaflet reinforcing member 149 is
located within the leaflet window 137, the leaflet window 137 being defined by the
leaflet window first side 133a and the leaflet window second side 133b, and the
leaflet window base 134. The leaflet reinforcing member 149 is coupled to the leaflet
window first side 133a and extends into what will be the leaflet first side region 184a,
as shown in FIG. 2B. Also in FIG. 2A, an optional strain relief frame covering 152 is
shown in dashed line following the contour of the leaflet window 137. The strain
                                               11

relief frame covering 152 is a covering of film 160 that covers the leaflet frame 130
and extends about 0.5 mm to 1.0 mm into the leaflet window 137. The strain relief
frame covering 152 provides a transition region that provides strain relief between
the leaflet frame 130 and the leaflet 140.
     [0054]     In FIG. 2B, a leaflet 140 is shown in solid line to represent where the
leaflet 140 is located within the leaflet window 137 and the leaflet reinforcing member
149, shown in dashed line, being within the leaflet first side region 184a.
     [0055]    The leaflet frame 130 may comprise a cut tube, or any other element
suitable for the particular purpose. The leaflet frame 130 may be etched, cut, laser
cut, or stamped into a tube or a sheet of material, with the sheet then formed into a
substantially cylindrical structure.
     [0056]    The leaflet frame 130 can comprise any metallic or polymeric material
that is biocompatible. For example, the leaflet frame 130 can comprise a material,
such as, but not limited to nitinol, cobalt-nickel alloy, stainless steel, or
polypropylene, acetyl homopolymer, acetyl copolymer, ePTFE, other alloys or
polymers, or any other biocompatible material having adequate physical and
mechanical properties to function as described herein.
     [0057]     Referring to FIGs. 2A and 2B, the leaflet frame comprises a plurality of
spaced apart leaflet frame elements defining substantially an isosceles trapezoid
interconnected by a base element 138 defining leaflet windows 137. Each of the
leaflet window first side 133a and leaflet window second side 133b is defined by a
side of one trapezoid and a side of an adjacent trapezoid defining a trapezoidal
shape, and wherein each leaflet window base 134 is defined by the base element
138 between the leaflet window first side 133a and leaflet window second side 133b.
In the embodiment of FIG. 1B there are three interconnected leaflet windows 137,
where a leaflet window first side 133a of one leaflet window 137 is interconnected
with an adjacent leaflet window second side 133b of an adjacent leaflet window 137.
     [0058]     Referring again to FIGs. 1A, 2A and 2B, the leaflet frame first end 121 a
further comprises commissure posts 136 extending from an apex of the leaflet frame
elements defining substantially an isosceles trapezoid. The commissure post 136
may affect the leaflet free edge 142 so as to create a larger or wider coaptation
region 146 between adjacent leaflet free edges 142.
     [0059]     In accordance with an embodiment, the leaflet frame 130 comprises a
frame having a shape determined, at least in part, by wrapping a two dimensional
isosceles trapezoid every 120 degrees onto the tubular shape of the leaflet frame
                                              12

130, the isosceles trapezoid having a leaflet window base 134, a leaflet window first
side 133a, and a leaflet window second side 133b that diverge from the leaflet
window base 134, and wherein a leaflet window first side 133a and leaflet window
second side 133b from adjacent isosceles trapezoids meet at the leaflet frame first
end 121a and frame second end 121b, as shown in FIG. 2A. A leaflet 140 is shown
located within the leaflet window 137, the leaflet window 137 being defined by the
leaflet window first side 133a, the leaflet window second side 133b, and the leaflet
window base 134.
      [0060]    In accordance with an embodiment of a valve 100, each leaflet 140 has
substantially the shape of an isosceles trapezoid having a leaflet first side 141 a and
a leaflet second side 141 b, a leaflet base 143 and a leaflet free edge 142 opposite
the leaflet base 143, wherein the leaflet first side 141a and a leaflet second side
141b diverge from the leaflet base 143, wherein the leaflet base 143 is substantially
flat, as shown in dashed lines in FIG. 2B.
      [0061]    FIG. 3 is a perspective view of a leaflet frame 230 that is a generally
tubular member, in accordance with another embodiment. The leaflet frame 230
comprises a frame first end 221 a and a frame second end 221 b opposite the frame
first end 221 a. The leaflet frame 230 comprises a leaflet frame outer surface 226a
and a leaflet frame inner surface 226b opposite the leaflet frame outer surface 226a,
as shown in FIG. 3A. The leaflet frame 230 defines commissure posts 236 that
couple to the leaflet free edges 242.
      [0062]    FIG. 4A and 4B are side views of a leaflet frame 230 of a valve 200
wherein the leaflet frame 230 has been longitudinally cut and laid open to better
illustrate the elements of the generally tubular-shaped leaflet frame 230, in
accordance with an embodiment. The leaflet frame comprises a plurality of
interconnected parabolic leaflet frame elements 235 terminating at commissure
posts 236 defining leaflet windows 237. Each parabolic leaflet frame elements 235
may be defined by a leaflet window first side 233a and leaflet window second side
233b on either side of a plane P symmetrically bisecting the parabolic leaflet frame
elements 235 aligned with the axial axis X, shown in FIG. 3B.
      [0063]   The commissure posts 236 extend from an apex of intersecting
parabolic leaflet frame elements 235. The length of the commissure post 236 may
define the length of the coaptation region 146 between adjacent leaflet free edges
142. Where the commissure post 236 is made longer and the leaflet is attached
                                            13

thereto, a larger or wider coaptation region 146 may be defined between adjacent
leaflet free edges 142.
      [0064]     In accordance with an embodiment of a valve 200, each leaflet 240 has
substantially the shape of a parabola having a leaflet first side 241 a including a
leaflet first side region 284a and a leaflet second side 241 b including a leaflet second
side region 284b defined by a plane P symmetrically aligned with the axial axis X
bisecting the parabola, and a leaflet free edge 142 between the leaflet first side 241 a
and a leaflet second side 241 b.
      [0065]     In FIG. 4B, a leaflet reinforcing member 249 is shown in dashed line to
represent where the leaflet reinforcing member 249 is located within the leaflet
window 237. The leaflet reinforcing member 249 is coupled to the leaflet window
first side 233a and extends into what will be at least a portion of the leaflet first side
region 284a. Also in FIG. 4B, an optional strain relief frame covering 252 is shown in
dashed line following the contour of the leaflet window 237. The strain relief frame
covering 252 is a covering of film 160 that covers the leaflet frame 130 and extends
about 0.5 mm to 1.0 mm into the leaflet window 237. The strain relief frame covering
252 provides a transition region that provides strain relief between the leaflet frame
130 and the leaflet 240. In FIG. 14B, a leaflet 240 is shown located within the leaflet
window 237 and the leaflet reinforcing member 249 being within the leaflet first side
region 284a.
                 Film
      [0066]     The film 160, as shown in FIG. 1A, is generally any sheet-like material
that is biologically compatible and configured to couple to the leaflet frame 130, in
accordance with embodiments. It is understood that the term "film" is used
generically for one or more biocompatible materials suitable for a particular purpose.
The leaflets 140 are also comprised of the film 160.
      [0067]     In accordance with an embodiment, the biocompatible material is a film
160 that is not of a biological source and that is sufficiently flexible and strong for the
particular purpose, such as a biocompatible polymer. In an embodiment, the film
160 comprises a biocompatible polymer that is combined with an elastomer, referred
to as a composite.
      [0068]     Details of various types of film 160 are discussed below. In an
embodiment, the film 160 may be formed from a generally tubular material to at least
partially cover the leaflet frame 130. The film 160 can comprise one or more of a
                                                14

membrane, composite material, or laminate. Details of various types of film 160 are
discussed below.
     [0069]     In an embodiment, the film 160 comprises a biocompatible polymer
that is combined with an elastomer, referred to as a composite material. A material
according to one embodiment includes a composite material comprising an
expanded fluoropolymer membrane, which comprises a plurality of spaces within a
matrix of fibrils, and an elastomeric material. It should be appreciated that multiple
types of fluoropolymer membranes and multiple types of elastomeric materials can
be combined to form a laminate while remaining within the scope of the present
disclosure. It should also be appreciated that the elastomeric material can include
multiple elastomers, multiple types of non-elastomeric components, such as
inorganic fillers, therapeutic agents, radiopaque markers, and the like while
remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.
     [0070]     In accordance with an embodiment, the composite material includes an
expanded fluoropolymer material made from porous ePTFE membrane, for instance
as generally described in U.S. Patent No. 7,306,729 to Bacino.
     [0071]     The expandable fluoropolymer, used to form the expanded
fluoropolymer material described, may comprise PTFE homopolymer. In alternative
embodiments, blends of PTFE, expandable modified PTFE and/or expanded
copolymers of PTFE may be used. Non-limiting examples of suitable fluoropolymer
materials are described in, for example, U.S. Patent No. 5,708,044, to Branca, U.S.
Patent No. 6,541,589, to Baillie, U.S. Patent No. 7,531,611, to Sabol et al., U.S.
Patent Application No. 11/906,877, to Ford, and U.S. Patent Application No.
12/410,050, to Xu et al.
     [0072]     The expanded fluoropolymer membrane can comprise any suitable
microstructure for achieving the desired leaflet performance. In accordance with an
embodiment, the expanded fluoropolymer comprises a microstructure of nodes
interconnected by fibrils, such as described in U.S. Patent No. 3,953,566 to Gore.
The fibrils radially extend from the nodes in a plurality of directions, and the
membrane has a generally homogeneous structure. Membranes having this
microstructure may typically exhibit a ratio of matrix tensile strength in two
orthogonal directions of less than or equal to 2, and possibly less than 1.5.
     [0073]     In another embodiment, the expanded fluoropolymer membrane has a
microstructure of substantially only fibrils, as is generally taught by U.S. Patent No.
7,306,729, to Bacino. The expanded fluoropolymer membrane having substantially
                                             15

only fibrils, can possess a high surface area, such as greater than 20m 2/g, or greater
than 25m 2/g, and in some embodiments can provide a highly balanced strength
material having a product of matrix tensile strengths in two orthogonal directions of at
least 1.5 x 105 MPa 2 , and/or a ratio of matrix tensile strengths in two orthogonal
directions of less than 4, and possibly less than 1.5.
     [0074]     The expanded fluoropolymer membrane can be tailored to have any
suitable thickness and mass to achieve the desired leaflet performance. By way of
example, but not limited thereto, the leaflet 140 comprises an expanded
fluoropolymer membrane having a thickness of about 0.1 pm. The expanded
fluoropolymer membrane can possess a mass per area of about 1.15 g/m2.
Membranes according to an embodiment of the invention can have matrix tensile
strengths of about 411 MPa in the longitudinal direction and 315 MPa in the
transverse direction.
     [0075]     Additional materials may be incorporated into the pores or within the
material of the membranes or in between layers of membranes to enhance desired
properties of the leaflet. Composite materials described herein can be tailored to
have any suitable thickness and mass to achieve the desired leaflet performance.
Composite materials according to embodiments can include fluoropolymer
membranes and have a thickness of about 1.9 pm and a mass per area of about 4.1
g/m2 . In other embodiments, the fluoropolymer membranes have a thickness of
about 100 pm and a mass per area of about 100 g/ M2.
     [0076]     The expanded fluoropolymer membrane combined with elastomer to
form a composite material provides the elements of the present disclosure with the
performance attributes required for use in high-cycle flexural implant applications,
such as heart valve leaflets, in various ways. For example, the addition of the
elastomer can improve the fatigue performance of the leaflet by eliminating or
reducing the stiffening observed with ePTFE-only materials. In addition, it may
reduce the likelihood that the material will undergo permanent set deformation, such
as wrinkling or creasing, that could result in compromised performance. In one
embodiment, the elastomer occupies substantially all of the pore volume or space
within the porous structure of the expanded fluoropolymer membrane. In another
embodiment the elastomer is present in a portion of the pores of the at least one
fluoropolymer layer. Having elastomer filling the pore volume or present in a portion
of the pores reduces the space in which foreign materials can be undesirably
incorporated into the composite material. An example of such foreign material is
                                            16

calcium that may be drawn into the membrane from contact with the blood. If calcium
becomes incorporated into the composite material, as used in a heart valve leaflet,
for example, mechanical damage can occur during cycling open and closed, thus
leading to the formation of holes in the leaflet and degradation in hemodynamics.
     [0077]      In an embodiment, the elastomer that is combined with the ePTFE is a
thermoplastic copolymer of tetrafluoroethylene (TFE) and perfluoromethyl vinyl ether
(PMVE), such as described in U.S. Patent No. 7,462,675 to Chang et al. As
discussed above, the elastomer is combined with the expanded fluoropolymer
membrane such that the elastomer occupies substantially all of the void space or
pores within the expanded fluoropolymer membrane to form a composite material.
This filling of the pores of the expanded fluoropolymer membrane with elastomer can
be performed by a variety of methods. In one embodiment, a method of filling the
pores of the expanded fluoropolymer membrane includes the steps of dissolving the
elastomer in a solvent suitable to create a solution with a viscosity and surface
tension that is appropriate to partially or fully flow into the pores of the expanded
fluoropolymer membrane and allow the solvent to evaporate, leaving the filler
behind.
     [0078]      In one embodiment, the composite material comprises three layers:
two outer layers of ePTFE and an inner layer of a fluoroelastomer disposed
therebetween. Additional fluoroelastomers can be suitable and are described in U.S.
Publication No. 2004/0024448 to Chang et al.
     [0079]      In another embodiment, a method of filling the pores of the expanded
fluoropolymer membrane includes the steps of delivering the filler via a dispersion to
partially or fully fill the pores of the expanded fluoropolymer membrane.
     [0080]      In another embodiment, a method of filling the pores of the expanded
fluoropolymer membrane includes the steps of bringing the porous expanded
fluoropolymer membrane into contact with a sheet of the elastomer under conditions
of heat and/or pressure that allow elastomer to flow into the pores of the expanded
fluoropolymer membrane.
     [0081]      In another embodiment, a method of filling the pores of the expanded
fluoropolymer membrane includes the steps of polymerizing the elastomer within the
pores of the expanded fluoropolymer membrane by first filling the pores with a
prepolymer of the elastomer and then at least partially curing the elastomer.
     [0082]      After reaching a minimum percent by weight of elastomer, the leaflets
constructed from fluoropolymer materials or ePTFE generally performed better with
                                              17

increasing percentages of elastomer resulting in significantly increased cycle lives.
In one embodiment, the elastomer combined with the ePTFE is a thermoplastic
copolymer of tetrafluoroethylene and perfluoromethyl vinyl ether, such as described
in U.S. Patent No. 7,462,675 to Chang et al., and other references that would be
known to those of skill in the art. Other biocompatible polymers which can be
suitable for use in leaflet 140 include but are not limited to the groups of urethanes,
silicones(organopolysiloxanes), copolymers of silicon-urethane, styrene/isobutylene
copolymers, polyisobutylene, polyethylene-co-poly(vinyl acetate), polyester
copolymers, nylon copolymers, fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers and copolymers or
mixtures of each of the foregoing.
               Leaflet
     [0083]    Each leaflet window 137 is provided with a biocompatible material,
such as a film 160, which is coupled to a portion of the leaflet window sides 133 with
the film 160 defining a leaflet 140, as shown in FIG. 1A-1 D and 2B. Each leaflet 140
defines a leaflet free edge 142 and a leaflet base 143, in accordance with an
embodiment. As will be described below, it is anticipated that a plurality of
embodiments of leaflet shapes, including with and without a defined leaflet base 143,
may be provided. In accordance with an embodiment, the film 160 is coupled to at
least a portion of the leaflet window first side 133a and leaflet window second side
133b and to the leaflet window base 134 where the leaflet 140 is defined by the
portion of the leaflet window first side 133a, the leaflet window second side 133b and
to the leaflet window base 134. The leaflet 140 has a leaflet upstream side 193 and
a leaflet downstream side 191 opposite the leaflet upstream side 193. The leaflet
upstream side 193 is that side of the leaflet 140 that is facing away from the leaflet
frame 130 when in the open position and the leaflet downstream side 191 is that side
of the leaflet 140 that is facing toward the leaflet frame 130 when in the open
position.
     [0084]    When the leaflets 140 are in a fully open position, the valve 100
presents a substantially circular valve orifice 102 as shown in FIG. 1C. Fluid flow is
permitted through the valve orifice 102 when the leaflets 140 are in the open
position. Since the leaflet first side region 184a is stiffer than the leaflet second side
region 184b, the leaflet first side region 184a does not open fully leaving a pocket
194 defined in part by the leaflet downstream side 191 adjacent the leaflet first side
                                             18

region 184a. As the blood exits the valve 100, retrograde flow may enter the pocket
194 so as to wash out the area defined by the leaflet downstream side 191.
      [0085]     A geometric orifice area (GOA), as is known in the art, is an area
measurement of an axial projection of an open area defined by the valve when in the
fully open position. As explained below, a first portion of a leaflet will extend further
into the valve orifice defined by the valve frame, that is, not open as much, than a
second portion of the same leaflet, which opens further. From an axial viewpoint, the
first portion of the leaflet will create a smaller GOA than the second portion of the
leaflet
      [0086]     FIG. 1C is an axial view of the valve 100 in the fully open position. As
shown in FIG. 1C, the leaflets 140 do not completely open to conform to the leaflet
frame inner surface 126b, therefore projecting a smaller geometric orifice area
compared with an orifice area of a frame without leaflets. The leaflet frame inner
surface 126b in cross-section transverse to the X axis defines a frame orifice 139
having a frame orifice area that is circular in shape.
      [0087]     The axial view shown in FIG. 1C is bisected into six segments by three
planes P1, P2, P3 where each plane passes through one commissure post 136, the
axis X and bisects a leaflet 140 in half, defining a first segment 172 and a second
segment 174. The leaflet first side region 184a of the leaflet 140 in the first segment
172 extends more into the frame orifice 139 defined by the leaflet frame inner
surface 126b defining a smaller GOA, for example, up to 70 percent smaller, than
the leaflet second side region 184b in the second segment 174. The benefit of this
relationship of the leaflet first side region 84a extending into the valve orifice as
compared to the leaflet second side region 184b will be detailed below.
      [0088]     FIG. 1D is an axial view of the valve 100 in the partially open position
or a partially closed position. The leaflet first side region 184a of one leaflet 140 is
adjacent to the leaflet second side region 184b of an adjacent leaflet 140. The
leaflet first side region 184a is stiffer compared to the leaflet second side region
184b. The leaflet second side region 184b will initially open first and will close last
compared to the leaflet first side region 184a. This controlled motion provides a
consistent leaflet motion from cycle to cycle imparting the benefits previously
described.
      [0089]     As the leaflets 140 cycle between the open and closed positions, the
leaflets 140 generally flex about the leaflet base 143 and the portion of the leaflet
window first side 133a and the leaflet window second side 133b to which the leaflets
                                              19

140 are coupled. Since the leaflet first side region 184a is more stiff than the leaflet
second side region 184b, the leaflet first side 141 a does not flex as much about the
leaflet window first side 133a as compared with the leaflet second side 141 b defining
a channel 145 between the leaflet first side 141 a of one leaflet 140 and the leaflet
second side 141 b of an adjacent leaflet 140 when the leaflet is not in the closed
position. The channel 145 is defined when the leaflet 140 moves from the closed
position. The channel 145 allows for blood flow therethrough throughout the opening
phase of the leaflet 140 and thus reduces the potential for blood pooling, stagnation
and clot formation between the leaflet first side141 a and the leaflet window first side
133a, and the leaflet second side 141 b and the leaflet window second side 133b,
and therebetween.
      [0090]     When the valve 100 is closed, generally about half of each leaflet free
edge 142 abuts an adjacent half of a leaflet free edge 142 of an adjacent leaflet 140,
as shown in FIG. 1E. The three leaflets 140 of the embodiment of FIG. 1E meet at a
triple point 148. The valve orifice 102 is occluded when the leaflets 140 are in the
closed position stopping fluid flow. Although the leaflet first side region 184a is stiffer
than the leaflet central region 182 and the leaflet second side region 184b, the
flexibility of the leaflet central region 182 and the leaflet second side region 184b of
an adjacent leaflet 140 allows for coaptation with the leaflet first side region 184a
allowing for proper closing of the valve 100.
      [0091]     Referring to FIG. 1E, in accordance with an embodiment, each leaflet
140 includes a leaflet central region 182, a leaflet first side region 184a, and a leaflet
second side region 184b on opposite sides of the leaflet central region 182. The
leaflet central region 182 is defined by a shape substantially that of a rectangle
defined by two leaflet central region sides 183, the leaflet base 143 and the leaflet
free edge 142. The two leaflet central region sides 183 extend from the leaflet base
143 to the leaflet free edge 142.
      [0092]     In accordance with an embodiment, the leaflet first side region 184a is
stiffer than the leaflet central region 182 and the leaflet second side region 184b.
The stiffness characteristics of the leaflet first side region 184a, leaflet second side
region 184b and the leaflet central region 182 may be affected by any suitable
means. In accordance with an embodiment, the leaflet 140 comprises a film that is a
laminate of multiple layers of composite material. Additional layers of composite
material are provided in the leaflet first side region 184a which imparts additional
stiffness to the leaflet first side region 184a as compared with the leaflet central
                                              20

region 182 and the leaflet second side region 184b. Example 1 provides additional
details as to the embodiment just described.
      [0093]     Referring to the embodiment of FIGs. 3A, 3B and 4A, 4B, in contrast to
the embodiment of FIGs. 1B, 2A and 2B, the parabolic shaped leaflet window 237
does not define a distinct base but only a leaflet window first side 233a and leaflet
window second side 233b on either side of a plane P symmetrically bisecting the
parabolic leaflet frame elements 235 aligned with the axial axis X, shown in FIGs. 4A
and 4B. Therefore, the film 160 is coupled to at least a portion of the leaflet window
first side 233a and leaflet window second side 233b where the leaflet 240 is defined
by the portion of the leaflet window first side 233a and the leaflet window second
side 133b. The leaflet 240 has a leaflet upstream side 193 and a leaflet downstream
side 191 opposite the leaflet upstream side 193. The leaflet upstream side 193 is
that side of the leaflet 140 that is facing away from the leaflet frame 230 when in the
open position and the leaflet downstream side 191 is that side of the leaflet 240 that
is facing toward the leaflet frame 130 when in the open position.
      [0094]     The embodiments of FIGs. 1A-E and 3, 4A and 4B are examples of two
different leaflet and leaflet window geometries that are suitable for the particular
purpose. It is understood that other leaflet and leaflet window geometries may also
be suitable for the particular purpose and are not limited thereto.
      [0095]     The axial view of the valve 200 shown in FIG. 3B is bisected into six
segments by three planes P1, P2, P3 where each plane passes through one
commissure post 236, the axis X and bisects a leaflet 240 in half, defining a first
segment 172 and a second segment 174. The portion of the leaflet in the first
segment 172 defines a smaller GOA than the portion of the leaflet in the second
segment 174, by virtue of the leaflet first side region 284a extending further into the
frame orifice 139 defined by the leaflet frame inner surface 126b.
      [0096]     FIG. 3B is an axial view of the valve 200 in the partially open position
or a partially closed position. The leaflet first side region 284a of one leaflet 240 is
adjacent to the leaflet second side region 284b of an adjacent leaflet 240. The
leaflet first side region 284a is stiffer compared to the leaflet second side region
284b. The leaflet second side region 284b will initially open first and will close last
compared to the leaflet first side region 284a. This controlled motion provides a
consistent leaflet motion from cycle to cycle imparting the benefits previously
described.
                                              21

      [0097]   The leaflet 140 can be configured to actuate at a pressure differential in
the blood caused, for example, by the contraction of a ventricle or atrium of the
heart, such pressure differential typically resulting from a fluid pressure building up
on one side of the valve 100 when closed. As the pressure on an inflow side of the
valve 100 rises above the pressure on the outflow side of the valve 100, the leaflet
140 opens and blood flows therethrough. As blood flows through the valve 100 into
a neighboring chamber or blood vessel, the pressure equalizes. As the pressure on
the outflow side of the valve 100 rises above the blood pressure on the inflow side of
the valve 100, the leaflet 140 returns to the closed position generally preventing the
retrograde flow of blood through the inflow side of the valve 100.
      [0098]    It is understood that the leaflet frame 130 may comprise any number of
leaflet windows 137, and thus leaflets 140, suitable for a particular purpose, in
accordance with embodiments. Leaflet frames 130 comprising one, two, three or
more leaflet windows 137 and corresponding leaflets 140 are anticipated.
      [0099]   Although embodiments provided above comprise a leaflet frame that
supports the leaflets, it is understood and appreciated that the leaflets may not
necessarily be supported by a frame. In accordance with an embodiment, the
leaflets may be supported by the inner wall within a solid-walled conduit without a
frame that defines leaflet windows and commissure posts. In other embodiments,
the leaflets may be constructed as in the tissue valve art that are formed into the
desired shape without a frame.
      [00100] In another embodiment of a valve including a plurality of leaflets, each
leaflet includes a leaflet first side and a leaflet second side opposite from the leaflet
first side. Each leaflet first side is coupled with the leaflet second side of an adjacent
leaflet at a commissure. The plurality of leaflets defines an orifice, also referred to as
a lumen, when the leaflets are in an open position. Each of the leaflet first sides
extend further into the orifice than each of the leaflet second sides.
      [00101] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. Each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side
region opposite from the leaflet first side region. Each leaflet defines a leaflet base
and a leaflet free edge opposite from the leaflet base. Each leaflet first side region is
coupled with the leaflet second side region of an adjacent leaflet at a commissure.
The leaflet base of the plurality of leaflets defines an orifice. The leaflet second side
regions extend further into the orifice than the leaflet first side region when the
leaflets are in the fully open position.
                                              22

      [00102] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. Each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side
region opposite from the leaflet first side region. At least a first portion of the leaflet
first side region has a first thickness and the leaflet second side region has a second
thickness wherein the first thickness is greater than the second thickness. In
operation, each leaflet opens asymmetrically. In one embodiment, the first thickness
may be ten times greater than the second thickness.
      [00103] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. Each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side
region opposite from the leaflet first side region. The leaflet first side region has a
first bending stiffness and the leaflet second side region has a second bending
stiffness. The first bending stiffness is greater than the second bending stiffness. In
operation, each leaflet opens asymmetrically.
      [00104] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. Each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side
region opposite from the leaflet first side region. The leaflet first side region being
more resistant to moving compared with the leaflet second side region. In operation,
each leaflet opens asymmetrically.
      [00105] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. Each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side
region opposite from the leaflet first side region. The leaflet first side region being
slower to open compared with the leaflet second side region. In operation, each
leaflet opens asymmetrically.
      [00106] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. Each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side
region opposite from the leaflet first side region. Each leaflet defines a leaflet base
and a leaflet free edge opposite from the leaflet base. Each leaflet first side region is
coupled with the leaflet second side region of an adjacent leaflet at a commissure.
The leaflet base of the plurality of leaflets defines an orifice. At least one of the
leaflet second side regions extends further into the orifice than the leaflet first side
region when the leaflets are in the fully open position.
      [00107] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. At least one leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second
side region opposite from the leaflet first side region. The leaflet first side region has
                                              23

a first thickness and the leaflet second side region has a second thickness. The first
thickness is greater than the second thickness.
      [00108] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. Each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side
region opposite from the leaflet first side region. At least one of the leaflets has a
leaflet first side region having a first bending stiffness and the leaflet second side
region having a second bending stiffness, wherein the first bending stiffness is
greater than the second bending stiffness.
      [00109] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. Each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side
region opposite from the leaflet first side region. At least one of the leaflets presents
with the leaflet first side region being more resistant to moving compared with the
leaflet second side region.
      [00110] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. Each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side
region opposite from the leaflet first side region. At least one of the leaflets
presenting the leaflet first side region being slower to open compared with the leaflet
second side region.
      [00111] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. Each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side
region opposite from the leaflet first side region. At least one leaflet has a thickness
that tapers from the leaflet first side region to the leaflet second side region.
      [00112] In another embodiment, a prosthetic valve comprises a plurality of
leaflets. Each leaflet includes a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side
region opposite from the leaflet first side region. At least one leaflet has a thickness
that varies from the leaflet first side region to the leaflet second side region.
      [00113] One skilled in the art will appreciate that the leaflet embodiments
provided herein may be applied to any prosthetic valve design regardless as to how
the leaflets are supported to function as described.
                 Other Considerations
      [00114] In accordance with an embodiment, the valve 100 can be configured to
prevent interference with a heart conduction system by not covering a bundle branch
in the left ventricle when implanted, such as might be encountered with an aortic
valve replacement procedure. For example, the valve 100 can comprise a length of
                                              24

less than about 25 mm or less than about 18 mm. The valve 100 can also comprise
an aspect ratio of less than one, wherein the ratio describes the relationship between
the length of the valve 100 to the expanded, functional diameter. However, the valve
100 can be constructed at any length and, more generally, any desirable dimension.
                Sewing Cuff
     [00115] In accordance with a valve 100 suitable for surgical implantation, the
valve 100 further comprises a sewing cuff about a leaflet frame 130 in accordance
with an embodiment. The sewing cuff is operable to provide structure that receives
suture for coupling to the implant site. The sewing cuff may comprise any suitable
material, such as, but not limited to, double velour polyester. The sewing cuff may
be located circumferentially around a perimeter of the base of the leaflet frame 130.
Sewing cuffs are known in the art.
     [00116] The valve 100 can further comprise a bio-active agent. Bio-active
agents can be coated onto a portion or the entirety of the film 160 for controlled
release of the agents once the valve 100 is implanted. The bio-active agents can
include, but are not limited to, vasodilator, anti-coagulants, anti-platelet, anti
thrombogenic agents such as, but not limited to, heparin. Other bio-active agents
can also include, but are not limited to agents such as, for example, anti
proliferative/antimitotic agents including natural products such as vinca alkaloids (i.e.
vinblastine, vincristine, and vinorelbine), paclitaxel, epidipodophyllotoxins (i.e.
etoposide, teniposide), antibiotics (dactinomycin (actinomycin D) daunorubicin,
doxorubicin and idarubicin), anthracyclines, mitoxantrone, bleomycins, plicamycin
(mithramycin) and mitomycin, enzymes (L-asparaginase which systemically
metabolizes L-asparagine and deprives cells which do not have the capacity to
synthesize their own asparagine); antiplatelet agents such as G(GP) Ilb/Illa inhibitors
and vitronectin receptor antagonists; anti-proliferative/antimitotic alkylating agents
such as nitrogen mustards (mechlorethamine, cyclophosphamide and analogs,
melphalan, chlorambucil), ethylenimines and methylmelamines
(hexamethylmelamine and thiotepa), alkyl sulfonates-busulfan, nitrosoureas
(carmustine (BCNU) and analogs, streptozocin), trazenes-dacarbazinine (DTIC);
anti-proliferative/antimitotic antimetabolites such as folic acid analogs
(methotrexate), pyrimidine analogs (fluorouracil, floxuridine, and cytarabine), purine
analogs and related inhibitors (mercaptopurine, thioguanine, pentostatin and 2
chlorodeoxyadenosine {cladribine}); platinum coordination complexes (cisplatin,
                                             25

carboplatin), procarbazine, hydroxyurea, mitotane, aminoglutethimide; hormones
(i.e. estrogen); anti-coagulants (heparin, synthetic heparin salts and other inhibitors
of thrombin); fibrinolytic agents (such as tissue plasminogen activator, streptokinase
and urokinase), aspirin, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, clopidogrel, abciximab;
antimigratory; antisecretory (breveldin); anti-inflammatory: such as adrenocortical
steroids (cortisol, cortisone, fludrocortisone, prednisone, prednisolone, 6a
methylprednisolone, triamcinolone, betamethasone, and dexamethasone), non
steroidal agents (salicylic acid derivatives i.e. aspirin; para-aminophenol derivatives
i.e. acetominophen; indole and indene acetic acids (indomethacin, sulindac, and
etodalac), heteroaryl acetic acids (tolmetin, diclofenac, and ketorolac), arylpropionic
acids (ibuprofen and derivatives), anthranilic acids (mefenamic acid, and
meclofenamic acid), enolic acids (piroxicam, tenoxicam, phenylbutazone, and
oxyphenthatrazone), nabumetone, gold compounds (auranofin, aurothioglucose,
gold sodium thiomalate); immunosuppressives: (cyclosporine, tacrolimus (FK-506),
sirolimus (rapamycin), azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil); angiogenic agents:
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), fibroblast growth factor (FGF);
angiotensin receptor blockers; nitric oxide donors; anti-sense oligionucleotides and
combinations thereof; cell cycle inhibitors, mTOR inhibitors, and growth factor
receptor signal transduction kinase inhibitors; retenoids; cyclin/CDK inhibitors; HMG
co-enzyme reductase inhibitors (statins); and protease inhibitors.
                Method of Making
      [00117] Embodiments described herein also pertain to a method of making the
valve 100 embodiments as described herein. In order to make the various
embodiments, a mandrel 710 that is cylindrical can be used. With reference to FIGs.
3A-3C, the mandrel 710 comprises a structural form operable to receive the leaflet
frame 130 thereon.
      [00118] An embodiment of a method of making a valve 100 comprises the
steps of wrapping a first film layer 160a, e.g., a composite as described herein, into a
tubular form about the mandrel 710; placing the leaflet frame 130 over the first film
layer 160a, as shown in FIG. 5A; thermally setting the assembly; trimming the first
film layer 160a to define a leaflet reinforcing member 149 that is at least a portion of
the leaflet first side region adjacent to and depending from the leaflet window first
side 133a and removing the first film layer 160a from the leaflet window that
substantially defines the leaflet central region 182 and the leaflet second side region
                                             26

184b; trimming the first film layer 160a to within about 0.5 to 1.0 mm of the leaflet
window second side 133b and the leaflet window base 134 within the leaflet window
137, as shown in FIG. 5B; define at least a portion of the leaflet first side region and
removing the first film layer 160a from the leaflet window that substantially defines
the leaflet central region 182 and the leaflet second side region 184b, as shown in
FIG. 5B; forming a second film layer 160b over the leaflet frame 130, as shown in
FIG. 5C; thermally setting the assembly; receiving the assembly over a mandrel 712
as shown in FIGs. 6A and 6B; cutting the film 160 across the leaflet window top
within the leaflet window 137.
       [00119] The resulting valve 100 comprises a leaflet 140 having a leaflet first
side region 184a that includes a leaflet reinforcing member 149 that is the first film
layer 160a coupled to the second film layer 160b, and the leaflet central region 182
and leaflet second side region that only includes the second film layer 160b. A small
border of the first film layer 160a that depends from the leaflet window second side
133b and the leaflet window base 134 within the leaflet window 137 provides a strain
relief that reduces the strain in the leaflet 140 at the interface between the leaflet 140
and the leaflet window 137 of the leaflet frame 130.
                      Example
       [00120] In an embodiment, a heart valve having polymeric leaflets formed from
a composite material having an expanded fluoropolymer membrane and an
elastomeric material and joined to a metallic frame, and further a having a strain
relief frame covering and a leaflet reinforcing member was constructed according to
the following process:
       [00121] A leaflet frame 130 was laser machined from a length of MP35N cobalt
chromium tube hard tempered with an outside diameter of 23.0 mm and a wall
thickness of 0.6 mm. The leaflet frame was electro-polished resulting in 0.01 mm
material removal from each surface and leaving the edges rounded. The leaflet
frame was cleaned by submersion in an ultrasonic bath of acetone for approximately
five minutes.
       [00122] A strain relief was attached to the leaflet frame in the following manner.
A steel metal mandrel having tapered diameter of 21.5 mm to 22.0 mm outer
diameter (taper angle of 0.1 degrees) was obtained. A thin-walled (122 pm)
sintered 15 mm diameter ePTFE tube was disposed on the metal mandrel by
stretching radially over another tapered mandrel and transferring to the 21.5 mm to
                                              27
        (GHMatters)
9914677_1        P103327.AU.1

22.0 mm mandrel. One layer of a substantially nonporous ePTFE membrane with an
FEP coating was circumferentially wrapped on the mandrel with the FEP side
towards the mandrel. This membrane was adhered by tacking using a soldering iron
(Weller) set to 4000C, thereby creating a covered mandrel. The ePTFE and
substantially nonporous ePTFE membrane combined to serve as an inner release
liner. This entire release liner was removed in a later step.
     [00123] A composite material comprising a membrane of ePTFE imbibed with a
fluoroelastomer was obtained. The composite material was comprised of three
layers: two outer layers of ePTFE and an inner layer of a fluoroelastomer disposed
therebetween. The ePTFE membrane was manufactured according to the general
teachings described in U.S. Patent No. 7,306,729. The fluoroelastomer was
formulated according to the general teachings described in U.S. Patent No.
7,462,675.
     [00124] The ePTFE membrane had the following properties: thickness = about
15 pm; MTS in the highest strength direction = about 400 MPa; MTS strength in the
orthogonal direction = about 250 MPa; Density = about 0.34 g/cm 3 ; IBP = about 660
KPa.
     [00125] The fluoroelastomer consists essentially of between about 65 and 70
weight percent perfluoromethyl vinyl ether and complementally about 35 and 30
weight percent tetrafluoroethylene.
     [00126] The percent weight of the fluoroelastomer relative to the ePTFE was
about 53%.
     [00127] The multi-layered composite had the following properties: thickness of
about 40 pm; density of about 1.2 g/cm 3 ; force to break/width in the highest strength
direction = about 0.953 kg/cm; tensile strength in the highest strength direction =
about 23.5 MPa (3,400 psi); force to break/width in the orthogonal direction = about
0.87 kg/cm; tensile strength in the orthogonal direction = about 21.4 MPa (3100 psi),
IPA bubble point greater than about 12.3 MPa, Gurley Number greater than about
1,800 seconds, and mass/area = about 14 g/m2
     [00128] Ten layers of this composite material was circumferentially wrapped on
top of the covered mandrel, and tacked with a soldering iron. One layer of film
consisting of only the above described fluoroelastomer (0.04mm) was then wrapped
on top of the previously applied film and tacked with a soldering iron, thereby
creating a leaflet frame covering. For this tacking operation, a 0.03 mm thick
polyimide film (Kapton polyimide, 2271 K1, McMaster-Carr, Santa Fe Springs CA)
                                            28

was temporarily placed between the fluoroelastomer film and the iron to prevent the
fluoroelastomer film from adhering to the iron.
     [00129] The clean leaflet frame was then placed over the leaflet frame covering
on the mandrel from the small diameter side of the taper until it fit snugly, with the
base of the frame toward the small diameter portion of the taper, as shown in FIG.
5A.
     [00130] The leaflet frame covering that extended beyond the base of the frame
toward the small taper was then everted over the frame until the entire frame was
encapsulated and the folded edge of the everted material was flush with the base of
the frame to create an outer leaflet frame covering, as shown in FIG. 5B.
     [00131] Approximately ten layers of a sacrificial longitudinally expanded PTFE
film having a thickness of about 0.1 mm were tightly wrapped around the covered
frame. The resulting assembly was then placed in a convection oven set at 3200C
for 20 minutes. This assembly was removed from the oven and allowed to cool, and
the outer sacrificial layers were removed. This assembly was then removed from the
mandrel, ensuring that it was released from the inner sacrificial layer.
     [00132] Using a surgical blade, the leaflet frame cover was trimmed, as shown
in FIG. 2B, to create a construct 154 consisting of a leaflet frame 130, a leaflet
reinforcing member 149 adjacent to one side of each post and a strain relief frame
covering 152. The remainder of the frame covering was trimmed at 1mm from the
edge of the frame, leaving 6 mm leaflet reinforcing member 149 on one side of each
post, as shown in FIG. 5C, the leaflet window first side 133a, as shown in FIG. 2A.
     [00133] A leaflet material was then prepared having a membrane layer of
ePTFE imbibed with a fluoroelastomer. More specifically, the membrane layer of
ePTFE was manufactured according to the general teachings described in U.S.
Patent No. 7,306,729. The ePTFE membrane was tested in accordance with the
methods described below. The ePTFE membrane had a mass per area of about 0.6
g/m , a porosity of about 90%, a thickness of about 3 pm, a bubble point of about
450 KPa, a matrix tensile strength of about 350 MPa in the longitudinal direction and
about 250 MPa in the transverse direction. This membrane was imbibed with the
same fluoroelastomer as described above. The fluoroelastomer was dissolved in
Novec HFE7500 (3M, St Paul, MN, USA) in an about 2.5% concentration. The
solution was coated using a mayer bar onto the ePTFE membrane (while being
supported by a polypropylene release film) and dried in a convection oven set to
                                           29

about 1450C for about 30 seconds. After two coating steps, the resulting composite
material of ePTFE/fluoroelastomer had a mass per area of about 4 g/m 2.
     [00134] The final leaflet was comprised of about 30% fluoropolymer by weight
with a thickness of 25 pm. Each leaflet had 31 layers of the composite.
     [00135] The encapsulated frame with frame covering defining a strain relief and
a reinforcing member was then attached to the leaflet material in a cylindrical or
tubular shape in the following manner. The encapsulated frame with strain relief
covering and reinforcing member was placed on the release liner-covered tapered
mandrel described above, as shown in FIG. 5D.
     [00136] Thirty-one layers of the above described leaflet material were
circumferentially wrapped over the encapsulated frame, as shown in FIG. 5D.
     [00137] Approximately ten layers of a sacrificial longitudinally expanded PTFE
film having a thickness of about 0.1 mm were tightly wrapped around the covered
frame. The resulting assembly was then placed in a convection oven set at 2800C
for 60 minutes. This assembly was removed from the oven and allowed to cool, and
the outer sacrificial layers were removed. This assembly was then removed from the
mandrel, ensuring that it was released from the inner sacrificial layer.
     [00138] The leaflet material was trimmed approximately 5 mm above the leaflet
frame first end 121 a, also referred to as the frame top. The resulting assembly was
placed in a convection oven set at 1500C for 15 min while closing the valve with 5 cm
of Hg vacuum to close the leaflets. The assembly was removed from the oven and
allowed to cool. Leaflets were trimmed using scissors to a height of approximately 1
2 mm above the coaptation line.
     [00139] The average maximum leaflet thickness in the leaflet first side region
was 281 micrometers and the average maximum leaflet thickness in the leaflet
second side region was 27 micrometers. These measurements were an average of
three measurements obtained on a Mitutoyo Litematic VL-50A (Aurora, IL) digimatic
measuring unit.
     [00140] The performance of the valve leaflets was characterized on a real-time
pulse duplicator. The following results were obtained: EOA = 1.9 cm2 and regurgitant
fraction = 2.5%.
     [00141] A geometric orifice area (GOA) test was performed. With a flow of 450
mil/s of 370C saline flowing through the 22mm ID valve, a picture was taken of the
leaflets in the fully open position. This image was analyzed by pasting the image in
CAD software (SOLIDWORKS 2012). A circle was drawn connecting the inner
                                             30

surface of the centers of each of the three posts. From the middle of each of these
three posts, a diameter line was drawn. These diameter lines split the image into six
(6) slices, or two slices per leaflet, similar to FIG. 1C. A spline line 156 was then
drawn around the full circumference of the edge of the open leaflets. The geometric
orifice area (GOA) for each of the three leaflets was then calculated by calculating
the luminal area within the spline for the 1/3 of the total valve area encompassed by
each leaflet. This resulted in a calculation of GOA for each leaflet (the sum of these
three GOAs equals the GOA of the entire valve). Subsequently, the GOA of each
side of the leaflet was calculated by using the diameter line drawn previously which
bisects the leaflet. The GOA from the reinforced section of the leaflet is always less
than the GOA of the unreinforced section. For the example presented above, the
ratio of the GOA on the reinforced side of the leaflet to the total leaflet GOA was
34%, 37%, and 33%, while the other side of the leaflet had a ratio of 66%, 63%, and
67%, respectively.
                Test Methods
                Pulsatile Flow Testing
      [00142] The flow performance was characterized by the following process:
      [00143] The valve assembly was placed within a silicone annular ring (support
structure), supporting its outer diameter without changing its diameter, to allow the
valve assembly to be subsequently evaluated in a real-time pulse duplicator. The
process was performed according to the recommendations of the pulse duplicator
manufacturer (ViVitro Laboratories Inc., Victoria BC, Canada).
      [00144] The valve assembly was then placed into a real-time left heart flow
pulse duplicator system. The flow pulse duplicator system included the following
components supplied by ViVitro Laboratories Inc., Victoria BC, Canada: a Super
Pump, Servo Power Amplifier Part Number SPA 3891; a Super Pump Head, Part
Number SPH 5891 B, 38 cm2 cylinder area; a valve station/fixture; Vivitro software
capable of waveform control and data collection ; I/O module Part Number XXXX,
TriPack Part Number TP 2001; a Sensor Interface, Part Number VB 2004; a Sensor
Amplifier Component, Part Number AM 9991; and a Square Wave Electro Magnetic
Flow Meter (positioned approximately 2 cm upstream of the valve), Carolina Medical
Electronics Inc., East Bend, NC, USA. The outflow chamber used to evaluate the
performance of the pulmonary valve was chosen such that the internal diameter of
the outflow chamber was matched to that of the valve diameter. A 40ml source
                                               31

compliance, a large peripheral compliance was added to the tester to simulate
physiological pulmonary conditions. Additionally, as a straight outflow chamber was
used, the root compliance was not used in the test set-up.
     [00145] In general, the flow pulse duplicator system uses a fixed displacement,
piston pump to produce a desired fluid flow through the valve under test. Testing
and definitions are consistent with ISO 5840-3, 2013 except where otherwise noted
for testing to pulmonary conditions. While this testing is conducted to pulmonary
conditions, testing and use (e.g. aortic, mitral, tricuspid, venous, etc) in other
conditions is not excluded.
     [00146] The heart flow pulse duplicator system was adjusted to produce the
desired flow (5.00.5 L/min), mean pressure (202 mmHg), simulated pulse rate (70
bpm), a 35% systolic duration sinusoidal waveform, and a stroke volume (i.e., the
amount of fluid pushed by the driving pump) of 841 ml. The operating temperature
was 371 OC using 0.9% saline as test solution. The valve under test was then cycled
for between 5 to 15 minutes.
     [00147] Pressure and flow data were measured and collected during the test
period for ten (10) continuous cardiac cycles, including right ventricular pressures,
pulmonary pressures, flow rates, and pump piston position. Parameters used to
characterize the valve are effective orifice area and regurgitant fraction. The
effective orifice area (EOA), which can be calculated as follows: EOA(cm 2 ) = Orms /
(51.6  * (AP)/ 2 ) where Qrms is the root mean square of the flow rate (cm3/s) during
the positive pressure interval of systolic period and AP is the mean differential
pressure during the positive pressure interval of the systolic period (mmHg) (note
that density of saline is taken to be 1 g/cm 3 , therefore this equation eliminates the
density as compared to the equation presented in ISO 5840).
     [00148] During this test, during the period when the maximum flow is flowing
through the valve, a digital picture was taken. This picture was taken from the
outflow region with the lens normal to the direction of flow with a field of view to
encompass the full outflow side of the valve. The flow rate was recorded from the
Pulse Duplicator at this time and the image used for GOA (Geometric Orifice Area)
calculations.
     [00149] Another measure of the hydrodynamic performance of a valve is the
regurgitant fraction, which is the amount of fluid or blood regurgitated through the
valve divided by the Forward Volume (i.e., amount of flow passing through the valve
during the forward phase of the valve).
                                            32

               Steady Flow Testing
     [00150] To demonstrate the asymmetrical opening of the leaflets in a steady
flow apparatus, saline heated to 370C was pumped at a steady rate though the valve
to open it. Saline was pumped using a pump (WEG Electric, Duluth, GA, part
number 10086261) with voltage regulator (Staco Energy Products, Miamisburg, OH,
part number 3PN221 OB) though the valve at 5 L/min (as measured by a large
graduated cylinder and stopwatch). The valve was placed within a silicone holder in
the recirculating loop that started and finished within an open 37 1   OC heated
reservoir. An image of the valve was taken using a digital camera (Vision Research,
Wayne, NJ, Model Miro EX4), and the GOA measured using the same technique as
noted previously. For all three leaflets, the geometric open area on one half of each
leaflet was 39% of each leaflets total GOA (i.e. other half of leaflet geometric open
area was 61% of each leaflets total GOA).
               Material Characterization Testing
     [00151] As used in this application, the surface area per unit mass, expressed
in units of m2/g, was measured using the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method on
a Coulter SA31 0OGas Adsorption Analyzer, Beckman Coulter Inc. Fullerton CA,
USA. To perform the measurement, a sample was cut from the center of the
expanded fluoropolymer membrane and placed into a small sample tube. The mass
of the sample was approximately 0.1 to 0.2 g. The tube was placed into the Coulter
SA-Prep Surface Area Outgasser (Model SA-Prep, P/n 5102014) from Beckman
Coulter, Fullerton CA, USA and purged at about 110*C for about two hours with
helium. The sample tube was then removed from the SA-Prep Outgasser and
weighed. The sample tube was then placed into the SA3100 Gas adsorption
Analyzer and the BET surface area analysis was run in accordance with the
instrument instructions using helium to calculate the free space and nitrogen as the
adsorbate gas.
     [00152] Bubble point and mean flow pore size were measured according to the
general teachings of ASTM F31 6-03 using a capillary flow Porometer, Model CFP
1500AEXL from Porous Materials, Inc., Ithaca NY, USA. The sample membrane was
placed into the sample chamber and wet with SilWick Silicone Fluid (available from
Porous Materials Inc.) having a surface tension of about 20.1 dynes/cm. The bottom
clamp of the sample chamber had an about 2.54 cm diameter hole. Isopropyl
                                             33

alcohol was used as the test fluid. Using the Capwin software version 7.73.012 the
following parameters were set as specified in the table below. As used herein, mean
flow pore size and pore size are used interchangeably.
     Parameter                            Set Point
     Maxflow (cm 3/m)                      200000
     Bublflow (cm 3/m)                         100
     F/PT (old bubltime)                        50
     Minbpress (PSI)                               0
     Zerotime (sec)                                1
     V2incr (cts)                                 10
     Preginc (cts)                                 1
     Pulse delay(sec)                              2
     Maxpre (PSI)                               500
     Pulse width (sec)                           0.2
     Mineqtime (sec)                              30
     Presslew (cts)                               10
     Flowslew (cts)                               50
     Eqiter                                        3
     Aveiter                                      20
     Maxpdif (PSI)                                0.1
     Maxfdif (PSI)                                50
     Sartp (PSI)                                    1
     Sartf (cm 3/m)                             500
     [00153] Membrane thickness was measured by placing the membrane between
the two plates of a K~fer FZ1 000/30 thickness snap gauge K~fer Messuhrenfabrik
GmbH, Villingen-Schwenningen, Germany. The average of the three measurements
was reported.
     [00154] The presence of elastomer within the pores can be determined by
several methods known to those having ordinary skill in the art, such as surface
and/or cross section visual, or other analyses. These analyses can be performed
prior to and after the removal of elastomer from the leaflet.
     [00155] Membrane samples were die cut to form rectangular sections about
2.54 cm by about 15.24 cm to measure the weight (using a Mettler-Toledo analytical
                                           34

balance model AG204) and thickness (using a K~fer Fz1 000/30 snap gauge). Using
these data, density was calculated with the following formula: p = m/w*l*t, in which:
p = density (g/cm3): m = mass (g), w = width (cm), I = length (cm), and t = thickness
(cm. The average of three measurements was reported.
     [00156] Tensile break load was measured using an INSTRON 122 tensile test
machine equipped with flat-faced grips and a 0.445 kN load cell. The gauge length
was about 5.08 cm and the cross-head speed was about 50.8 cm/min. The sample
dimensions were about 2.54 cm by about 15.24 cm. For longitudinal measurements,
the longer dimension of the sample was oriented in the highest strength direction.
For the orthogonal MTS measurements, the larger dimension of the sample was
oriented perpendicular to the highest strength direction. Each sample was weighed
using a Mettler Toledo Scale Model AG204, then the thickness measured using the
K~fer FZ1 000/30 snap gauge. The samples were then tested individually on the
tensile tester. Three different sections of each sample were measured. The
average of the three maximum loads (i.e., peak force) measurements was reported.
The longitudinal and transverse matrix tensile strengths (MTS) were calculated using
the following equation: MTS = (maximum load/cross-section area)*(bulk density of
PTFE)/ (density of the porous membrane), wherein the bulk density of the PTFE was
taken to be about 2.2 g/cm 3. Bending stiffness was measured by following the
general procedures set forth in ASTM D790. Unless large test specimens are
available, the test specimen must be scaled down. The test conditions were as
follows. The leaflet specimens were measured on a three-point bending test
apparatus employing sharp posts placed horizontally about 5.08 mm from one
another. An about 1.34 mm diameter steel bar weighing about 80 mg was used to
cause deflection in the y (downward) direction, and the specimens were not
restrained in the x direction. The steel bar was slowly placed on the center point of
the membrane specimen. After waiting about 5 minutes, the y deflection was
measured. Deflection of elastic beams supported as above can be represented by:
d = F*L3/48*El, where F (in Newtons) is the load applied at the center of the beam
length, L (meters), so L =1/2 distance between suspending posts, and El is the
bending stiffness (Nm). From this relationship the value of El can be calculated. For
a rectangular cross-section: I = t3 *w/1 2, where I = cross-sectional moment of inertia, t
= specimen thickness (meters), w = specimen width (meters). With this relationship,
the average modulus of elasticity over the measured range of bending deflection can
be calculated.
                                             35

     [00157]    It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications
and variations can be made in the present embodiments without departing from the
spirit or scope of the embodiments. Thus, it is intended that the present
embodiments cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they
come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.
     [00158] In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the
invention, except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or
necessary implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated
features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various
embodiments of the invention.
                                             36

WHAT IS CLAIMED:
1.      A prosthetic valve comprising:
        a plurality of leaflets including a first leaflet, each leaflet of the plurality of
leaflets defining a leaflet first side region and a leaflet second side region opposite
from the leaflet first side region, each leaflet of the plurality of leaflets defining a
leaflet base and a leaflet free edge opposite from the leaflet base, each leaflet first
side region being coupled with the leaflet second side region of an adjacent leaflet at
a commissure, wherein the leaflet bases of the plurality of leaflets collectively define
an orifice when each of the leaflets are in a fully open position, and wherein the
leaflet second side region of the first leaflet extends further into the orifice than the
leaflet first side region of the first leaflets when the first leaflet is in the fully open
position.
2.      The prosthetic valve of claim 1, wherein for each leaflet of the plurality of
leaflets, the leaflet first side region extends further into the orifice than the leaflet
second side region when the leaflet is in the open position.
3.      The prosthetic valve of either claim 1 or 2, wherein the leaflet first side region
of the first leaflet has a first bending stiffness and the leaflet second side region of
the first leaflet has a second bending stiffness, the first bending stiffness being
greater than the second bending stiffness.
4.      A prosthetic valve comprising:
        a plurality of leaflets that defines an orifice when the leaflets are in a fully open
position, each of the plurality of leaflets leaflet including a leaflet first side region and
a leaflet second side region opposite from the leaflet first side region, wherein for
each leaflet of the plurality of leaflet the leaflet first side region has a first bending
stiffness that is greater than a second bending stiffness of the leaflet second side
region, and wherein each leaflet opens asymmetrically such that the leaflet second
side regions are operable to initiate opening before the leaflet first side regions, and
wherein the leaflet first side regions are operable to initiate closing before the leaflet
second side regions, the leaflet first side region of a first leaflet being coupled to a
leaflet second side region of a second leaflet positioned adjacent the first leaflet.
                                                37

5.       The prosthetic valve of claim 4, wherein each of the leaflet first side regions
extend further into the orifice than each of the leaflet second side regions when the
leaflets are in the fully open position.
6.       The prosthetic valve of any one of the preceding claims, wherein for each
leaflet the leaflet first side region is defined, in part, by a leaflet first edge, and
wherein for each leaflet the leaflet second side region is defined, in part, by a leaflet
second edge.
7.       The prosthetic valve of any one of the preceding claims, wherein one of the
leaflets of the plurality of leaflets comprises at least one layer of a composite material
such that a first portion of the first side region of the leaflet comprises more layers of
composite material than the second side region of the leaflet.
8.       The prosthetic valve of any one of the preceding claims, wherein a first
thickness of the leaflet first side region of the first leaflet is up to ten times greater
than a second thickness of the leaflet second side region of the first leaflet.
9.       The prosthetic valve of any of the preceding claims, wherein a first thickness
of the leaflet first side region of the first leaflet is at least 280 micrometer and a
second thickness of the leaflet second side region of the first leaflet is 25 micrometer
or greater.
10.      The prosthetic valve of any one of the preceding claims, wherein a first
thickness of the leaflet first side region of the first leaflet is greater than 110% of a
second thickness of the leaflet second side region of the first leaflet.
11.      The prosthetic valve of any one of the preceding claims, wherein when in the
fully open position, the leaflet first side region of the first leaflet contributes to a
smaller geometric orifice area as compared with the leaflet second side region of the
first leaflet, or wherein when in the fully open position, the leaflet first side region of
the first leaflet contributes up to a 70 percent smaller geometric orifice area as
compared with the leaflet second side region of the first leaflet.
12.      The prosthetic valve of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the leaflet
second side region of the first leaflet is configured to open further than the leaflet first
side region of the first leaflet during forward flow of up to 350 ml/sec.
                                                38

13.     The prosthetic valve of any one of claims 3 to 12, wherein a first portion of the
leaflet first side region of the first leaflet further comprises a leaflet reinforcing
member, the leaflet reinforcing member being operable to provide the first portion of
the leaflet first side region of the first leaflet with the first bending stiffness that is
greater than the second bending stiffness of the leaflet second side region.
14.     The prosthetic valve of claim 13, wherein the leaflet reinforcing member
comprises at least one layer of composite material coupled to at least the first portion
of the leaflet first side region of the first leaflet.
15.     The prosthetic valve of either claim 13 or 14, wherein the leaflet reinforcing
member extends to the free edge of the leaflet.
16.     The prosthetic valve of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
        a leaflet frame having a generally tubular shape, the leaflet frame defining a
plurality of leaflet windows wherein each of the leaflet windows includes a leaflet
window first side, a leaflet window second side opposite the leaflet window first side,
and a leaflet window base between the leaflet window first and second sides,
wherein a leaflet window first side of a first leaflet window is interconnected with a
leaflet window second side of a second leaflet window situated adjacent the first
leaflet window,
        wherein the plurality of leaflets are coupled to the leaflet frame, such that for
each leaflet, the leaflet first side region is coupled to the leaflet window first side and
the leaflet second side region is coupled to the leaflet window second side.
17.     The prosthetic valve of claim 16, wherein the first leaflet includes a leaflet
central region that is defined between the leaflet first side region of the first leaflet
and the leaflet second side region of the first leaflet, and wherein the first leaflet is
coupled to the leaflet frame such that the leaflet first side region of the first leaflet is
coupled to the leaflet window first side, the leaflet second side region of the first
leaflet is coupled to the leaflet window second side, and the leaflet central region of
the first leaflet is coupled to the leaflet window base.
18.     The prosthetic valve of either claim 16 or 17, wherein the leaflet reinforcing
                                                 39

member of the first leaflet is coupled to the leaflet window first side, thereby making
the leaflet first side region of the first leaflet stiffer than the leaflet second side region
of the first leaflet.
19.     The prosthetic valve of any of claims 16 to 18, wherein adjacent leaflet
windows terminate at a commissure post.
20.     The prosthetic valve of claim 19, further comprising a vertical element
extending from each commissure post.
21.     The prosthetic valve of any one of claims 16 to 20, wherein the leaflet frame
defines three interconnected leaflet windows having a substantially trapezoidal
shape.
22.     The prosthetic valve of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first
leaflet comprises a polymeric material, or a laminate, or a laminate having more than
one layer of a fluoropolymer membrane.
23.     The prosthetic valve of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first
leaflet comprises a film having at least one fluoropolymer membrane having a
plurality of pores and an elastomer present in substantially all of the pores of the at
least one fluoropolymer membrane.
24.     The prosthetic valve of claim 23, wherein the film comprises less than about
80% fluoropolymer membrane by weight.
25.     The prosthetic valve of either claim 23 or 24, wherein the elastomer
comprises (per)fluoroalkylvinylethers (PAVE), or a copolymer of tetrafluoroethylene
and perfluoromethyl vinyl ether.
26.     The prosthetic valve of either claim 23 or 25, wherein the fluoropolymer
membrane comprises ePTFE.
27.     A method of forming a prosthetic valve, comprising:
                                                40

        providing a leaflet frame having a generally tubular shape, the leaflet frame
defining a frame outer surface and a plurality of leaflet windows wherein each of the
leaflet windows includes a leaflet window first side, a leaflet window second side
opposite from the leaflet window first side, a leaflet window base, and a leaflet
window top;
        providing a film;
        providing a mandrel;
        wrapping a first film layer into a tubular form about the mandrel;
        placing the leaflet frame over the first film layer;
        everting the first film over the leaflet frame to cover the frame outer surface
and thereby defining an first assembly;
        thermally setting the first assembly;
        trimming the first film layer to define a leaflet reinforcing member that is at
least a portion of a leaflet first side region adjacent to and depending from the leaflet
window first side of a first leaflet window;
        removing the first film layer from the first leaflet window that substantially
defines a leaflet central region and a leaflet second side region;
        defining the leaflet first side region and removing those portions of the first film
layer from the first leaflet window that do not define the leaflet first side region;
        forming a second film layer over the leaflet frame thereby defining a second
assembly;
        thermally setting the second assembly;
        receiving the second assembly over a mandrel; and
        cutting the film across the leaflet window top within the leaflet window.
28.     The method of forming a prosthetic valve of claim 27, wherein forming the
second film layer includes wrapping a second film about an inner surface of the
leaflet frame, and wrapping a third film about an outer surface of the leaflet frame
such that one or more portions of the second and third film are coupled together
within the leaflet windows, wherein a plurality of leaflets are defined where the
second film and the third film are coupled together in the leaflet windows.
                                               41

29.   The method of forming a prosthetic valve of either claim 27 and 28, further
comprising trimming the first film layer to within about 0.5 to 1.0 mm of the leaflet
window second side of the first leaflet window.
                                            42

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
