                                           Abstract
         Embodiments herein include aqueous chicken products with reduced
  concentrations of off-flavor compounds and related methods. In an embodiment, a food
  product is included. The food product can include a hermetically sealed shelf-stable
5 package. The food product can further include a sterilized or pasteurized aqueous
  chicken product at a solids concentration of less than 30 brix. The food product can
  include chicken-derived protein, chicken-derived lipids, and less than 30 ppb 2-pentyl
  furan. Other embodiments are also included herein.
                                              20

        1/8
                       100
Obtaining a Spray- 102
  Dried Chicken
   Composition
     Increasing    104
Moisture Content
to Form Aqueous
 Chicken Product
  Filling Aqueous  106
 Chicken Product
  Into Container
   Sterilizing or  108
 Pasteurizing the
 Filled Container
FIG. 1

        CHICKEN PRODUCTS WITH REDUCED CONCENTRATIONS OF OFF
                                     FLAVOR COMPOUNDS
                                                Field
 5         Embodiments herein relate to aqueous chicken products with reduced
   concentrations of off-flavor compounds and related methods.
                                             Background
           Chicken products including substantial amounts of water, such as chicken stock
10 and chicken broth, are healthy and delicious products that can be consumed directly or
   can be used as ingredients to produce other food products such as soups, sauces,
   marinades, gravies, casseroles, crackers, savory pies, breads, other baked products, and
   the like.
           Chicken stock and broth are commonly packaged in a shelf-stable manner in cans,
15 bottles, cartons, and the like, for use by consumers. In some cases, chicken stock or broth
   is packaged in bulk containers for large scale ingredient use.
           Chicken stock and broth includes the natural flavors of chicken, including
   chicken-based protein and some lipids. In some cases, chicken broth also includes
   flavors of vegetables and seasonings. Chicken stock and broth can be relatively low in
20 fat and carbohydrates making it a flavorful, but healthy addition to many different types
   of meals.
                                              Summary
           Embodiments herein include aqueous chicken products with reduced
25 concentrations of off-flavor compounds and related methods. In an embodiment, a food
   product is included. The food product can include a hermetically sealed shelf-stable
   package. The food product can further include a sterilized or pasteurized aqueous
   chicken product at a solids concentration of less than 30 brix. The food product can
   include chicken-derived protein, chicken-derived lipids, and less than 30 ppb 2-pentyl
30 furan.
                                                  1

           In an embodiment, a method of making a food product is included. The method
   can include obtaining a spray dried chicken composition, increasing the moisture content
   of the spray dried chicken composition such that it has a solids concentration of less than
   30 brix to form an aqueous chicken product, filling the aqueous chicken product into a
 5 container and hermetically sealing the container, and sterilizing or pasteurizing the filled
   container.
           In an embodiment, a method of making a food product is included. The method
   can include obtaining a spray dried chicken composition, increasing the moisture content
   of the spray dried chicken composition such that it has a solids concentration of less than
10 30 brix to form an aqueous chicken product, sterilizing or pasteurizing the aqueous
   chicken product, and filling the aqueous chicken product into a container aseptically and
   hermetically sealing the container
           This summary is an overview of some of the teachings of the present application
   and is not intended to be an exclusive or exhaustive treatment of the present subject
15 matter. Further details are found in the detailed description and appended claims. Other
   aspects will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reading and understanding the
   following detailed description and viewing the drawings that form a part thereof, each of
   which is not to be taken in a limiting sense. The scope herein is defined by the appended
   claims and their legal equivalents.
20
                                Brief Description of the Figures
           Aspects may be more completely understood in connection with the following
   drawings, in which:
           FIG. 1 is a flow diagram of a method of making a food product in accordance
25 with various embodiments herein.
           FIG. 2 is a flow diagram of a method of making a food product in accordance
   with various embodiments herein.
           FIG. 3 is a flow diagram of a method of making a food product in accordance
   with various embodiments herein.
30         FIG. 4 is a schematic view of a food product in accordance with various
   embodiments herein.
                                                 2

           FIG. 5 is a schematic view of a food product in accordance with various
   embodiments herein.
           FIG. 6 is a graph showing relative concentrations of off-flavor compounds pre
   and post-retort.
 5         FIG. 7 is a graph of showing concentrations of isovaleric acid (IVA) and
   phenylacetic acid (PAA) before and after spray drying.
           FIGS. 8A-8B are graphs showing concentrations of hexanal over time in aqueous
   chicken products that were frozen versus those that were spray-dried.
           While embodiments are susceptible to various modifications and alternative
10 forms, specifics thereof have been shown by way of example and drawings, and will be
   described in detail. It should be understood, however, that the scope herein is not limited
   to the particular embodiments described. On the contrary, the intention is to cover
   modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope herein.
15                                    Detailed Description
           The embodiments described herein are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit
   the invention to the precise forms disclosed in the following detailed description. Rather,
   the embodiments are chosen and described so that others skilled in the art can appreciate
   and understand the principles and practices.
20         All publications and patents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by
   reference. The publications and patents disclosed herein are provided solely for their
   disclosure. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the inventors are not
   entitled to antedate any publication and/or patent, including any publication and/or patent
   cited herein.
25         As referenced above, aqueous chicken products such as chicken stock and chicken
   broth are healthy and delicious products consumed in significant quantities by people all
   over the world. However, it has been discovered that some chicken products can contain
   small amounts of organic compounds that can be perceived by some people as producing
   off-flavors. Reducing or eliminating such compounds can result in a higher quality, more
30 delicious product.
           There are many different compounds that can lead to off-flavors. It is also
                                                3

   believed that off-flavor compounds can have many different origins. By way of example,
   the presence of isovaleric acid (IVA) and phenylacetic acid (PAA) can result in off
   flavors and are believed to have a bacterial origin. As another example, aldehydes such
   as hexanal, heptanal, octanal, nonanal, and furan containing compounds such as 2-ethyl
 5 furan and 2-pentyl furan can result in off-flavors and are believed to be formed as a part
   of lipid oxidation.
           As shown below in Example 1, it has been remarkably shown that certain
   compounds, such as hexanal, seem to be reduced during operations involving heat such
   as retort operations, but that their decrease is offset by increased amounts of other off
10 flavor compounds such as 2-pentyl furan and, to a lesser extent, 2-ethyl furan. As such,
   while it is unknown exactly what chemical reactions are taking place, it appears that
   some off-flavor compounds, such as hexanal, are converted directly or indirectly into
   other off-flavor compounds. Based on this finding, reducing the amounts of certain off
   flavor compound prior to steps such as retorting leads to reduced amounts of other off
15 flavor compounds after retorting.
           As shown below in Examples 2-3, it has also been remarkably shown that certain
   compounds can be removed or greatly diminished through specific types of evaporative
   processes such as spray drying.
           Taking these two findings together, it is shown that product quality can be
20 increased through lower concentrations of certain off-flavor compounds by subjecting
   chicken products to a processing step such as spray-drying before their incorporation in
   aqueous chicken products such as chicken stock and chicken broth.
           As used herein, the term "aqueous chicken product" shall refer to a food-grade
   chicken product including at least about 0.26% solids from chickens and at least about
25 50% by weight water and shall specifically include products such as "chicken broth" and
   "chicken stock".
   Preparation and Cooking
            Starting with a chicken or portions thereof, preparation can include one or more
30 steps of evisceration, cleaning, washing, feather removal, butchering, grinding, removal
   of portions, meat separation, mechanical separation, and the like. However, it will be
                                                   4

   appreciated that not all of these steps are performed in all cases. For example, in some
   embodiments, meat separation may not be performed.
           Chickens, or portions thereof, can then be cooked. Cooking can take place at
   various temperatures and under various conditions. Cooking can be performed through
 5 various processing including steam cooking, boiling, pressure cooking, extrusion
   cooking, roasting, oven cooking, and the like. In some specific embodiments, the
   chickens can be steam cooked. Steam cooking can be performed at various temperatures
   and for various times. In some embodiments, cooking can be performed at 150, 155, 160,
   165, 170, 175, 180, 185, or 190 degrees Fahrenheit. In some embodiments, cooking can
10 be performed at a temperature in a range wherein any of the foregoing numbers can serve
   as the upper or lower bound of the range, provided that the upper bound is greater than
   the lower bound. In some embodiments, cooking can be performed for at least about 5,
   7.5, 10, 12.5, 15, 17.5, 20, 22.5, 25, or 30 minutes. In some embodiments, cooking is
   performed for a length of time in a range wherein any of the foregoing numbers can serve
15 as the upper or lower bound of the range, provided that the upper bound is greater than
   the lower bound. In some embodiments, cooking can be performed at various pressures,
   such as atmospheric or greater than atmospheric.
           Various types of devices can be used for cooking chickens in accordance with
   embodiments herein. Equipment used for cooking chickens can include continuous
20 thermal processing machines and non-continuous (or batch or discontinuous) thermal
   processing machines. Equipment used for cooking chickens can include, but are not
   limited to, batch cookers, ovens, conveyer ovens, steam injection cookers, thermal screw
   cookers, immersion cookers, and the like. In some specific examples, a thermal screw
   cooker can be used to cook chickens. The chickens, or components thereof, can be fed
25 into the cooker through an infeed chute and then the chickens are transported through the
   machine via a helical screw and then discharged from the machine.
           Cooking can result in the generation of a lipid fraction, an aqueous fraction, and
   residual solids. The lipid fraction and aqueous fraction can be separated from the
   residual solids. The lipid fraction and the aqueous fraction can also be physically
30 separated from one another, such as by using a decanter, filter, centrifuge type device,
   separation screen, and the like. In some embodiments, the lipid fraction and the aqueous
                                                  5

   fraction are phase-separated (based on the relative insolubility of lipid and aqueous
   fractions in one another) facilitating their physical isolation from each other.
            It will be appreciated that separation of lipid and aqueous fractions may not be
   complete. By way of example, the aqueous fraction can still have some lipid content and,
 5 similarly, the lipid fraction can still have some water content. In some embodiments, the
   aqueous fraction can be further processed to reduce the lipid content therein. By way of
   example, the aqueous fraction can be further processed using a decanter centrifuge,
   vacuum filters, centrifugal separator, screen-scroll centrifuges and the like. In some
   embodiments, the liquid fraction can be processed to reduce or eliminate naturally
10 formed emulsions in order to enhance the ability of separating the lipid fraction from the
   aqueous fraction.
            In various embodiments, the aqueous fraction can have a lipid content of less than
   about 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1%by weight. While not intending to
   be bound by theory, since some off-flavor compounds are believed to be produced as part
15 of a lipid oxidation process, it is believed that starting with relatively low lipid content
   can lead to further off-flavor compounds being produced.
            In some embodiments, after the aqueous fraction is isolated, it can be cooled
   down. For example, it can be chilled, refrigerated, and/or frozen. In some embodiments,
   the aqueous fraction can be held at a relatively low temperature or frozen for a period of
20 time before further processing steps are taken.
            In some embodiments, a sterilization or pasteurization step can be performed
   either before or after the cooling step. Sterilization or pasteurization can include the
   application of one or more of heat, steam, pressure, electromagnetic waves, radiation, and
   the like.
25          In some embodiments, sterilization or pasteurization can include heating the
   aqueous fraction to a temperature of at least about 140, 145, 150, 155, 160, 165, 170, 175,
   180, 185, 190, 195, 200, 205, or 210 degrees Fahrenheit for a period of time. In some
   embodiments, the temperature can be in a range wherein any of the foregoing
   temperatures can serve as the lower or upper bound of the range, provided that the upper
30 bound is greater than the lower bound. The period of time can vary, depending on the
   temperature and other factors, but in some embodiments, can be at least 30 seconds, 1
                                                   6

   minute, 2 minutes, 3 minutes, 4 minutes, 5 minutes, 7 minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes,
   20 minutes, or 25 minutes. In some embodiments, the time can be in a range wherein any
   of the foregoing times can serve as the lower or upper bound of the range, provided that
   the upper bound is greater than the lower bound.
 5
   Evaporation
           In some cases, spray drying can occur most efficiently if the water content of a
   material to be spray dried is below a threshold amount. As such, in some embodiments,
   chicken products herein, such as the aqueous fraction obtained after cooking, can be
10 subject to an initial evaporation step prior to spray drying. By way of example, in some
   embodiments, chicken products can be concentrated to get to a product containing less
   than 90, 85, 80, 75, 70, 65, 60, 55, 50, 45, 40, 35, 30, 25, or 20% water through
   evaporative processes prior to spray drying. Evaporation can be conducted with various
   pieces of equipment. By way of example, evaporation can be conducted using a flash
15 evaporator, rotary evaporator, vacuum evaporator, centrifugal evaporator, vapor
   compression evaporator, or the like.
   Spray Drying / Hot Air Drying
           Spray drying typically includes mixing a heated gas with an atomized (sprayed)
20 liquid stream within a drying chamber. Spray drying results in evaporation and typically
   produces a free flowing dry powder. In various embodiments, spray drying can include
   atomizing a solution or slurry. The atomized solution or slurry can be sprayed into a
   mixing chamber where it is mixed with a heated gas. The temperature of spray drying
   apparatus can vary. In some embodiments, the inlet temperature can be about 130, 135,
25 140, 145, 150, 155, 160, 164, 170, 175, 180, 185, 190, 195, or 200 degrees Celsius. In
   some embodiments, the inlet temperature can fall within a range wherein any of the
   foregoing temperatures can serve as the upper or lower bounds of the range, provided that
   the upper bound is greater than the lower bound.
           In some embodiments, the outlet temperature can vary. In some embodiments,
30 the outlet temperature can be about 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 105, 110, 115, 120, 125,
   or 130 degrees Celsius. In some embodiments, the outlet temperature can fall within a
                                                  7

   range wherein any of the foregoing temperatures can serve as the upper or lower bounds
   of the range, provided that the upper bound is greater than the lower bound. Exemplary
   spray drying systems are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,431,780 and 7,078,057, the content
   of which is herein incorporated by reference.
 5         In various embodiments, the resulting dry powder can have an average particle
   size of about 10, 50, 100 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750,
   800, 850 or 900 microns. In some embodiments, the dry powder can have an average
   particle size that falls within a range wherein any of the foregoing sizes can serve as the
   upper or lower bound of the range, provided that the upper bound is greater than the
10 lower bound.
            Spray-drying, as referenced above, can be effective to reduce the concentration of
   various off-flavor compounds. In some embodiments, spray-drying reduces the
   concentration of hexanal. In some embodiments, the concentration of hexanal is reduced
   by at least 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, or 50%.
15         In some embodiments, spray-drying reduces the concentration of octanal.        In
   some embodiments, the concentration of octanal is reduced by at least about 15, 20, 25,
   30, 35, 40, 45, or 50%.
           In some embodiments, spray-drying reduces the concentration of isovaleric acid.
   In some embodiments, the concentration of isovaleric acid is reduced by at least about 15,
20 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, or 50%.
           In some embodiments, spray-drying reduces the concentration of phenylacetic
   acid.   In some embodiments, the concentration of phenylacetic acid is reduced by at
   least about 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, or 50%.
           In some embodiments, spray-drying reduces the concentration of at least one
25 selected from the group consisting of heptanal, 2-pentyl furan, 2-ethyl furan, and nonanal
   by at least about 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, or 5 0 % .
   Reconstitution / Aqueous Chicken Product Preparation
           In various embodiments, a spray-dried chicken product can be reconstituted to
30 form an aqueous chicken product. In specific, water can be added to the spray-dried
   chicken product to result in an aqueous chicken product. The specific amount of water
                                                  8

   can vary depending on the desired concentration of the aqueous chicken product. In
   some embodiments, an amount of water can be added sufficient to raise the total water
   content to at least about 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, or 98% water by weight. In
   some embodiments, an amount of water can be added sufficient to raise the total water
 5 content to an amount that is in a range wherein any of the foregoing water content
   amounts can serve as the upper or lower bound, provided that the upper bound is greater
   than the lower bound. In some embodiments, the water temperature when added can be
   below room temperature, at room temperature, or above room temperature.
            In some embodiments, after the addition of water, the aqueous chicken product
10 can have a solids concentration of less than 50, 40, 30, 25, 20, 15, 12.5, 10, 7.5, 5, 4, 3, or
   2 brix. In some embodiments, the aqueous chicken product can have a solids
   concentration in a range wherein any of the foregoing numbers can serve as the upper or
   lower bound of the range, provided that the upper bound is greater than the lower bound.
            In addition, in some embodiments, constitution can include the addition of
15 components other than water including, but not limited to salt, flavoring, spices,
   seasoning, vegetables, vegetable extracts, dextrose, and antioxidants (including
   specifically, but not limited to, carnosic acid, carnosol, rosmarinic acid, ursolic acid, and
   the like).
20 Filling and Sterilizing
            In various embodiments, filling and/or sterilization or pasteurization steps can be
   performed. Sterilization or pasteurization can occur before filling, simultaneously with
   filling, and/or after filling has been completed. Methods of sterilization or pasteurization
   can include but are not limited to the application of heat, pressure, electromagnetic waves
25 (including radio wave and/or microwaves), radiation, and the like. In some
   embodiments, sterilization and/or pasteurization can include filtration. In some
   embodiments, sterilization and/or pasteurization can include retort cooking. In some
   embodiments, multiple different operations can be conducted in order to reduce the
   number of viable microorganisms and/or spores, or in some cases completely eliminate
30 them.
            In some embodiments, sterilization or pasteurization can include heating the
                                                  9

   aqueous chicken product to a temperature of at least about 140, 145, 150, 155, 160, 165,
   170, 175, 180, 185, 190, 195, 200, 205, or 210 degrees Fahrenheit for a period of time.
   In some embodiments, the temperature can be in a range wherein any of the foregoing
   temperatures can serve as the lower or upper bound of the range, provided that the upper
 5 bound is greater than the lower bound. The period of time can vary, depending on the
   temperature and other factors, but in some embodiments, can be at least 30 seconds, 1
   minute, 2 minutes, 3 minutes, 4 minutes, 5 minutes, 7 minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes,
   20 minutes, or 25 minutes. In some embodiments, the time can be in a range wherein any
   of the foregoing times can serve as the lower or upper bound of the range, provided that
10 the upper bound is greater than the lower bound.
   Finished Aqueous Chicken Product Properties
            In various embodiments herein, a food product is included. The food product can
   include a hermetically sealed shelf-stable package. A sterilized or pasteurized aqueous
15 chicken product, with a solids concentration of less than 30 brix, can be disposed within
   the package. The chicken product can include chicken-derived protein and chicken
   derived lipids.
            The chicken product can include relatively low amounts of 2-pentyl furan. In
   some embodiments, the chicken product can include less than 100, 60, 30, 20, 15, 10, 6
20 or 3 ppb 2-pentyl furan.
            The chicken product can include relatively low amounts of isovaleric acid. In
   some embodiments, the chicken product can include less than 20, 10, 5, 3, 2, or 1 ppm
   isovaleric acid.
            The chicken product can include relatively low amounts of octanal. In some
25 embodiments, the chicken product can include less than 5, 2, 1, 0.5, 0.3, 0.2, 0.1 ppm
   octanal.
            In some embodiments, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
   comprising less than about 10% by weight chicken-derived lipids. In some embodiments,
   the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product comprising less than about 7% by
30 weight chicken-derived lipids. In some embodiments, the sterilized or pasteurized
   aqueous chicken product comprising less than about 6% by weight chicken-derived
                                                10

   lipids. In some embodiments, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
   comprising less than about 5% by weight chicken-derived lipids. In some embodiments,
   the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product comprising less than about 4% by
   weight chicken-derived lipids. In some embodiments, the sterilized or pasteurized
 5 aqueous chicken product comprising less than about 3% by weight chicken-derived
   lipids. In some embodiments, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
   comprising less than about 2% by weight chicken-derived lipids.
   Methods
10          Many different methods are included herein and can include various operations
   discussed above and in the examples below. Referring now to FIG. 1, a flow diagram is
   shown of a method of making a food product in accordance with various embodiments
   herein. The method 100 can include an operation of obtaining a spray-dried chicken
   composition 102. Various steps above can be performed to obtain a spray-dried chicken
15 composition. Alternatively, a spray-dried chicken composition can be obtained from a
   third party. The method can also include an operation of increasing the moisture content
   to form an aqueous chicken product 104. The method can also include an operation of
   filling aqueous chicken product into a container 106. The method can also include an
   operation of sterilizing or pasteurizing the filled container 108.
20          In some embodiments, steps can be performed in different orders. Referring now
   to FIG. 2, a flow diagram is shown of a method of making a food product in accordance
   with various embodiments herein. The method 200 can include an operation of obtaining
   a spray-dried chicken composition 202. Various steps above can be performed to obtain
   a spray-dried chicken composition. Alternatively, a spray-dried chicken composition can
25 be obtained from a third party. The method can also include an operation of increasing
   the moisture content to form an aqueous chicken product 204. The method can also
   include an operation of sterilizing or pasteurizing the aqueous chicken product 206. The
   method can also include an operation of aseptically filling the aqueous chicken product
   into a container 208.
30          Referring now to FIG. 3, a flow diagram is shown of a method of making a food
   product in accordance with various embodiments herein. The method 300 can also
                                                  11

   include an operation of cooking chickens or portions thereof 302. The method can also
   include an operation of isolating an aqueous fraction of liquids 304 resulting from
   cooking chickens. The method can also include an operation of concentrating the
   aqueous fraction 306. The method can also include an operation of spray-drying the
 5 aqueous fraction 308. The method can also include an operation of increasing the
   moisture content to form an aqueous chicken product 310. The method can also include
   an operation of sterilizing or pasteurizing the aqueous chicken product 312. The method
   can also include an operation of aseptically filling the aqueous chicken product into a
   container 314.
10
   Finished Products
           Food products can include aqueous chicken products packaged in various ways.
   In some embodiments, food products herein are shelf-stable. In other embodiments, food
   products herein must be refrigerated or frozen. The food products can include various
15 types of containers including, but not limited to, cans, bottles, jugs, boxes, tubs, cartons,
   jars, and the like. In various embodiments, the containers can be hermetically sealed. The
   containers can be formed of one or more layers of polymers, cellulosic materials, metals,
   glass, composite, and the like.
           Referring now to FIG. 4, a schematic view is shown of a food product 400 in
20 accordance with various embodiments herein. The food product 400 includes a container
   402 and an aqueous chicken product 404 disposed therein. In this view, the container
   402 can take on the form of a can. Referring now to FIG. 5, a schematic view is shown of
   a food product 500 in accordance with various embodiments herein. The food product
   500 includes a container 502 and an aqueous chicken product 504 disposed therein. In
25 this view, the container 502 can take on the form of a carton. The container 502 can
   include a spout 506 for dispensing the aqueous chicken product therefrom.
           Aspects may be better understood with reference to the following examples.
   These examples are intended to be representative of specific embodiments, but are not
   intended as limiting the overall scope of embodiments herein.
                                                 12

                                            EXAMPLES
   Example 1: Relative Concentrations of Off-Flavor Compounds Before and After Retort
 5 Cooking
           A series of samples of an aqueous chicken product were evaluated to determine
   concentrations of certain off-flavor compounds at three different time points. In specific,
   samples were tested for concentrations of hexanal, heptanal, 2-pentyl furan, 2-ethyl furan,
   octanal, and nonanal at time points of: 1.) immediately prior to retort sterilization, 2.)
10 immediately after retort sterilization, and 3.) five weeks after retort sterilization. The
   procedure and conditions for the retort sterilization were F0 15-30. Testing for the
   compounds listed above was accomplished using GC-MS analysis. All analysis was
   conducted in duplicate.
           The results are shown below in FIG. 6. The results show that amounts of hexanal
15 decreased substantially as a result of retort sterilization. However, amounts of 2-pentyl
   furan and, to a lesser extent, 2-ethyl furan, increased substantially.
   Example 2: Reduction of IVA and PAA by Spray Drying
           A series of samples of aqueous chicken product were spiked with amounts of
20 isovaleric acid or phenylacetic acid. In specific, samples of aqueous chicken product
   were spiked with of isovaleric acid or of phenylacetic acid (see concentrations in Table 1
   below). The samples were then spray dried according to the following conditions. The
   samples were then reconstituted to a water content of approximately 70 percent and then
   tested (in duplicate) for IVA and PAA using GC-MS analysis.
25         The results are shown in FIG. 7. The results show that IVA and PAA can be
   removed from aqueous chicken products by spray drying. In this experiment, IVA was
   reduced by 33% through spray drying and PAA was reduced by 27%.
                                                   Concentration
                              Condition            (ppm)
                              IVA Pre-Spray
                              dry                                  10.7
                                                  13

                              IVA Post-Spray
                              Dry                                    7.2
                              PAA Pre-Spray
                              dry                                   14.9
                              PAA Post-Spray
                              dry                                   11.2
                                              TABLE 1
   Example 3: Reduction of Hexanal by Spray Drying
           A series of samples of aqueous chicken product were obtained. Some samples
 5 were simply frozen and others were spray dried and then reconstituted. The samples
   were then tested (in duplicate) for hexanal content using GC-MS analysis at time points
   of 0 weeks, 4 weeks and 8 weeks.
           The results are shown in FIGS. 8A-8B. The results show that hexanal can be
   removed from aqueous chicken products by spray drying as spray-dried samples had
10 lower concentrations of hexanal than those that were merely frozen.
           It should be noted that, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the
   singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the content clearly
   dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to a composition containing "a
15 compound" includes a mixture of two or more compounds. It should also be noted that
   the term "or" is generally employed in its sense including "and/or" unless the content
   clearly dictates otherwise.
           It should also be noted that, as used in this specification and the appended claims,
   the phrase "configured" describes a system, apparatus, or other structure that is
20 constructed or configured to perform a particular task or adopt a particular configuration
   to. The phrase "configured" can be used interchangeably with other similar phrases such
   as arranged and configured, constructed and arranged, constructed, manufactured and
   arranged, and the like.
           All publications and patent applications in this specification are indicative of the
25 level of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention pertains. All publications and
   patent applications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each
                                                  14

   individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated by
   reference.
           In the specification the term "comprising" shall be understood to have a broad
   meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the inclusion of
 5 a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other
   integer or step or group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to variations on
   the term "comprising" such as "comprise" and "comprises".
           The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
   as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part
10 of the common general knowledge in Australia.
           Aspects have been described with reference to various specific and preferred
   embodiments and techniques. However, it should be understood that many variations and
   modifications may be made while remaining within the spirit and scope herein.
                                                  15

The Claims Are:
   1. A food product comprising:
       a hermetically sealed shelf-stable package comprising
               a sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product at a solids
       concentration of less than 30 brix comprising
                        chicken-derived protein;
                        chicken-derived lipids; and
                        less than 30 ppb 2-pentyl furan.
   2. The food product of claim 1, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
comprising less than 15 ppb 2-pentyl furan.
   3.  The food product of claim 1, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
comprising less than 6 ppb 2-pentyl furan.
   4. The food product of claim 1, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
comprising less than 5 ppm isovaleric acid.
   5.  The food product of claim 1, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
comprising less than 3 ppm isovaleric acid.
   6. The food product of claim 1, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
comprising less than 1 ppm isovaleric acid.
   7. The food product of claim 1, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
comprising less than 0.3 ppm octanal.
   8.  The food product of claim 1, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
comprising less than 0.2 ppm octanal.
                                             16

    9. The food product of claim 1, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
comprising less than 0.1 ppm octanal.
    10. The food product of claim 1, the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous chicken product
comprising less than about 5 % by weight chicken-derived lipids.
    11. The food product of claim 1, wherein the food product is chicken stock.
    12. The food product of claim 1, wherein the food product is chicken broth.
    13. The food product of claim 1, wherein the sterilized or pasteurized aqueous
        chicken product is a retorted aqueous chicken product.
    14. A method of making a food product comprising:
        obtaining a spray dried chicken composition;
        increasing the moisture content of the spray dried chicken composition such that it
has a solids concentration of less than 30 brix to form an aqueous chicken product;
        filling the aqueous chicken product into a container and hermetically sealing the
container; and
        sterilizing or pasteurizing the filled container.
    15. The method of making a food product of claim 14, wherein obtaining a spray
        dried chicken composition comprises
             spray drying an aqueous composition to form a spray dried composition, the
    aqueous composition comprising
                     chicken-derived protein; and
                     chicken-derived lipids.
    16. The method of making a food product of claim 15, prior to the step of spray
        drying, further comprising,
                                                17

        steam cooking chicken;
        separating the cooked chicken into an aqueous fraction, a lipid fraction and a meat
fraction; and
        concentrating the aqueous fraction.
    17. The method of claim 14, wherein spray-drying reduces the concentration of
        hexanal.
    18. The method of claim 17, wherein the concentration of hexanal is reduced by at
        least 25%.
    19. The method of claim 14, wherein spray-drying reduces the concentration of
        octanal.
    20. The method of claim 19, wherein the concentration of octanal is reduced by at
        least 25%.
    21. The method of claim 14, wherein spray-drying reduces the concentration of
        isovaleric acid.
    22. The method of claim 21, wherein the concentration of isovaleric acid is reduced
        by at least 25%.
    23. The method of claim 14, wherein spray-drying reduces the concentration of
        phenylacetic acid.
    24. The method of claim 23, wherein the concentration of phenylacetic acid is
        reduced by at least 25%.
                                            18

    25. The method of claim 14, wherein spray drying also reduces the concentration of at
        least one selected from the group consisting of heptanal, 2-pentyl furan, 2-ethyl
        furan, and nonanal by at least 25%.
    26. The method of claim 14, wherein the food product is chicken stock.
    27. The method of claim 14, wherein the food product is chicken broth.
    28. The method of claim 14, further comprising adding an anti-oxidant to the aqueous
        chicken product.
    29. The method of claim 28, the anti-oxidant selected from the group consisting of
        camosic acid, carnosol, rosmarinic acid, and ursolic acid.
    30. The method of claim 14, wherein sterilizing or pasteurizing the filled container
        comprises retorting the filled container.
    31. A method of making a food product comprising:
        obtaining a spray dried chicken composition;
        increasing the moisture content of the spray dried chicken composition such that it
has a solids concentration of less than 30 brix to form an aqueous chicken product;
        sterilizing or pasteurizing the aqueous chicken product; and
        filling the aqueous chicken product into a container aseptically and hermetically
sealing the container
                                              19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/8

