COOKER WITH IGNITION SYSTEM FOR SOLID FUEL
ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to a solid-fuel cooker, such as a barbecue, comprising: a body
defining a chamber configured to act as a firebox for combustion of solid fuel, such as charcoal
or briquettes; a fuel support structure for supporting the solid fuel in the chamber; and an ignition
system for igniting the solid fuel supported by the support structure. The ignition system
comprises at least one electric heating element mounted to the body and located in or adjacent to
the chamber for heating the solid fuel supported by the support structure, the at least one electric
heating element configured to be switched between an electrically energized (i.e. switched "on")
state and an electrically de-energized (i.e., switched "off") state. The at least one electric heating
element is configured to transfer heat to the solid fuel supported by the support structure to ignite
the solid fuel when the switch is operated to the electrically energized (i.e. switched "on") state.

    1/4
     43
Ett
           2Z
              2-o
    Fig. 2
262
      0
    Fig.4
    Fig. 3

                                                   1
COOKER WITH IGNITION SYSTEM FOR SOLID FUEL
Field
[0001] The present invention relates to a cooker, and especially to a solid-fuel cooker, such as a
barbecue, for outdoor use.
[0002] It will be appreciated that the invention has application to a range of different types of
cookers that use solid fuels, such as wood chips, charcoal or briquettes. These cookers include,
but are not limited to, barbecues, grills, smokers, outdoor ovens, pizza ovens, and the like, and it
will be convenient to describe the invention herein in this exemplary context.
Background
[0003] Barbecues that are designed to use solid fuel, such as wood, charcoal or briquettes, to
cook food have been known for many years. Typically, such barbecues have a chamber called a
firebox for accommodating the solid fuel during combustion and a cooking grill disposed above
the firebox so that the heat generated by the combustion of the solid fuel in the firebox is
transferred to the cooking grill.
[0004] Before cooking on such solid-fuel barbecues may commence, it is first necessary for the
solid fuel to be ignited. To this end, a user traditionally starts a fire in the firebox from paper
and wood. Either the wood slowly reduces to coals for use in cooking, or additional solid fuel in
the form of charcoal or briquettes are included in the fire and are then slowly ignited for use in
subsequent cooking. This traditional technique has the disadvantage, however, that it is quite
complicated and time consuming before the solid fuel is suitably ignited for cooking. In another
technique, the solid fuel is placed in the firebox together with a highly flammable liquid or other
highly flammable items, such as firelighters, applied on or amongst the solid fuel. By igniting
the highly flammable liquid or items with a naked flame from a match or a cigarette lighter, the
surrounding solid fuel is gradually ignited to combustion for use in cooking. A disadvantage of
this technique, however, is that such highly flammable liquids and items can expose the user to
the risk of accidents and/or injury if used improperly. Also, components of the petrochemicals
typically contained in such highly flammable liquids or items can be transferred to food during
the cooking process.

                                                  2
Summary of Invention
[0005] In view of the above, it is an object of the present invention to provide a cooker, such as
a barbecue, that substantially overcomes or at least ameliorates one or more of the disadvantages
discussed above.
[0006] According to one aspect the present invention provides a cooker, such as a barbecue,
comprising: a body defining a chamber configured to act as a firebox for combustion of solid
fuel, such as charcoal or briquettes; a fuel support structure for supporting the solid fuel in the
chamber; and an ignition system for igniting the solid fuel supported by the support structure.
The ignition system comprises: at least one electric heating element mounted to the body and
located in or adjacent to the chamber for heating the solid fuel supported by the support
structure; and a switch operable between a first state, in which the at least one electric heating
element is electrically energized (i.e., switched "on"), and a second state, in which the at least
one electric heating element is electrically de-energized (i.e., switched "off'). The at least one
electric heating element is configured to transfer heat to the solid fuel supported by the support
structure to ignite the solid fuel when the switch is operated to the first state.
[0007] According to another aspect, the present invention provides a cooker, such as a barbecue,
comprising: a body defining a chamber for combustion of solid fuel, such as wood, charcoal or
briquettes; a fuel support structure for supporting solid fuel in the chamber; and an ignition
system for igniting solid fuel supported by the fuel support structure, the ignition system
comprising at least one electric heating element mounted to the body for heating solid fuel
supported by the fuel support structure, the at least one electric heating element configured to be
switched between an electrically energized or "on" state and an electrically de-energized or
"off' state. The at least one electric heating element is arranged to transfer heat to solid fuel
supported by the fuel support structure to ignite the solid fuel when it is switched to the
energized or "on" state. The cooker typically includes a cooking grill for supporting food items
to be cooked spaced above the solid fuel supported on the fuel support structure in the chamber.
[0008] In a preferred embodiment, the chamber of the cooker is upwardly open, or has an upper
opening (that may optionally include a lid or a cover) for the introduction of the solid fuel onto
the fuel support structure. In this way, the body of the cooker may be designed for introducing
the solid fuel from above through an upper opening formed in or by the cooker body onto the

                                                   3
fuel support structure, as is known in conventional barbecue design. The fuel support structure
is preferably configured as a receptacle, such as a basin or tray, for holding the solid fuel. The
cooker (e.g., barbecue) typically comprises a cooking grill that is mountable to the body so that
the cooking grill is located spaced above the solid fuel supported on the fuel support structure in
the chamber, as will be understood in the art.
[0009] In a preferred embodiment, the ignition system comprises a controller that is operatively
associated with or connected to the at least one electric heating element and/or the switch. The
controller is desirably configured to operate the switch and/or the at least one electric heating
element from the first (i.e. "on") state to the second (i.e. "off') state automatically after a
predetermined period of time has elapsed; i.e. following operation to the first (i.e. "on") state.
The predetermined period of time may be in the range of about 2 minutes to about 20 minutes,
preferably in the range of about 5 minutes to about 15 minutes, and more preferably in the range
of about 5 minutes to about 10 minutes.
[00010] In a preferred embodiment, the ignition system further comprises a user interface for
operating the controller or the switch. In this regard, the user interface may include a screen,
such as a touch-screen, which provides a display for a user. The screen is preferably configured
to provide the user with information on any one or more of: the state of the switch or the heating
element, a grill temperature, and the time remaining before the predetermined period of time has
elapsed; i.e. indicating that adequate combustion of the solid fuel has occurred to commence
cooking.
[00011] In a preferred embodiment, the at least one electric heating element is arranged in the
chamber of the body of the cooker such that, when the solid fuel is placed on the fuel support
structure, the at least one electric heating element is substantially surrounded by, and optionally
in direct contact with, the solid fuel.
[00012] In an alternative preferred embodiment, the fuel support structure is configured to be
arranged in the chamber of the body of the cooker such that it is located above, e.g. immediately
above, the at least one electric heating element. In this regard, the fuel support structure may
include an insert, such as a plate member, in a base thereof for covering and protecting the at
least one heating element, but which nevertheless permits or promotes the transfer of heat from
the heating element to the solid fuel. To this end, the insert has a lower surface arranged above

                                                    4
the at least one heating element and an upper surface arranged for contact with the solid fuel.
This insert may include a plurality of apertures extending there-through, i.e. from the lower
surface to the upper surface, to promote heat transfer also via radiation and convection. The fuel
support structure, or at least the insert portion thereof, may be formed from stainless steel,
although other thermally conductive materials, such as other metals or metal alloys, are also
contemplated.
[00013] In a preferred embodiment, the at least one electric heating element comprises: a pair of
electrical connectors configured for electrical connection to an electrical power source, e.g. via
the switch; an electrical resistance heating wire arranged to electrically interconnect the pair of
electrical connectors; and a sheath of electrically insulating and thermally conductive material
surrounding and encapsulating the resistance heating wire. The electrical resistance heating
wire is preferably formed from a nickel chromium alloy, and the sheath is preferably formed
from magnesium oxide. The at least one electric heating element may further comprise a cover
layer covering the sheath, with the cover layer preferably being formed from stainless steel.
[00014] In a preferred embodiment, the at least one electric heating element is elongate and may
extend in a convoluted configuration, e.g. a serpentine or coiled configuration, to concentrate the
transfer of heat to the solid fuel supported on the fuel support structure; for example, via the said
insert or plate member of the fuel support structure in thermal contact with the fuel. In the
context of this application, thermal contact or heat transfer includes any one or more of heat
conduction, heat radiation, and convection.
[00015] In a preferred embodiment, the ignition system further comprises an electric cable for
connection to an electrical power supply socket to supply electrical energy to the at least one
heating element. The electric cable is preferably wound on a spool in the body of the cooker,
with the spool being under torsional bias for retracting the cable after ignition of the solid fuel.
[00016] According to at least one preferred embodiment, the invention thus provides a cooker,
such as a barbecue, comprising: a body defining a chamber for combustion of solid fuel, such as
charcoal or briquettes; a fuel support structure for supporting solid fuel in the chamber; a
cooking grill for supporting food items to be cooked spaced above the solid fuel supported on
the fuel support structure in the chamber; and an ignition system for igniting solid fuel
supported by the fuel support structure, the ignition system comprising at least one electric

                                                   5
heating element mounted to the body for heating solid fuel supported by the fuel support
structure, the at least one electric heating element configured to be switched between an
electrically energized or "on" state and an electrically de-energized or "off' state. The at least
one electric heating element is arranged to transfer heat to solid fuel supported by the fuel
support structure to ignite the solid fuel when it is switched to the energized or "on" state. The
at least one electric heating element is elongate and extends in a convoluted or serpentine
configuration to concentrate heat transfer to the solid fuel on the fuel support structure. The fuel
support structure is configured as a basin or a tray for holding the solid fuel in the chamber
above the at least one electric heating element, and the fuel support structure includes an insert,
such as a plate member, having a lower surface arranged above the at least one heating element
and an upper surface for contact with the solid fuel.
[00017] According to at least one preferred embodiment, the invention also provides a cooker,
such as a barbecue, comprising: a body defining a chamber to act as a firebox for combustion of
solid fuel, such as charcoal or briquettes; a fuel support structure for supporting solid fuel in the
chamber; and an ignition system for igniting solid fuel supported by the fuel support structure,
the ignition system comprising at least one electric heating element mounted to the body for
heating solid fuel supported by the fuel support structure, the at least one electric heating
element being switchable to an electrically energized or "on" state and to an electrically de
energized or "off" state and being configured and arranged to transfer heat to solid fuel
supported by the fuel support structure to ignite the solid fuel when switched to the electrically
energized or "on" state. The ignition system includes a controller that is configured to switch
the at least one electric heating element from the "on" state to the "off' state automatically after
a predetermined period of time in the range of about 2 minutes to 20 minutes has elapsed. The
fuel support structure is configured as a receptacle, such as a basin or a tray, for holding the
solid fuel and the chamber is upwardly open for introducing the solid fuel onto the fuel support
structure from above, wherein the at least one electric heating element is located in or adjacent
the chamber and the fuel support structure is arranged in the chamber above the at least one
electric heating element. The fuel support structure includes a removable insert, such as a plate
member, that covers the at least one heating element, the removable insert having a plurality of
apertures there-through.

                                                  6
Brief Description of Drawings
[00018] For a more complete understanding of the invention and the advantages thereof,
exemplary embodiments of the invention will be explained in more detail in the following
detailed description with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which like reference signs
designate like parts, and in which:
[00019] Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a cooker according to a preferred embodiment;
[00020] Fig. 2 is a top view of the cooker shown in Fig. 1 without the cooking grill;
[00021] Fig. 3 is a front view of the cooker shown in Fig. 1 with detail of a user interface;
[00022] Fig. 4 is a perspective view of an electric heating element of the cooker of Fig 1;
[00023] Fig. 5 is a schematic cross-sectional view of the heating element of Fig. 4;
[00024] Fig. 6 is a perspective view of a cooker according to another preferred embodiment;
[00025] Fig. 7 is a top view of the cooker of Fig. 6 without the cooking grill;
[00026] Fig. 8 is a front view of the cooker shown in Fig. 6 with detail of a user interface;
[00027] Fig. 9 is a front view of a cooker according to a further preferred embodiment; and
[00028] Fig. 10 is a top view of the cooker shown in Fig. 9 with detail of a user interface.
[00029] The accompanying drawings are included to provide a further understanding of the
present invention and are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification. The
drawings illustrate particular embodiments of the invention and together with the description
serve to explain the principles of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention and many
of the attendant advantages of the invention will be readily appreciated as they become better
understood with reference to the following detailed description.
[00030] It will be appreciated that common and/or well understood elements that may be useful
or necessary in a commercially feasible embodiment are not necessarily depicted in order to

                                                   7
facilitate a more abstracted view of the embodiments. The elements of the drawings are not
necessarily illustrated to scale relative to each other. It will also be understood that certain
actions and/or steps in an embodiment of a method may be described or depicted in a particular
order of occurrences while those skilled in the art will understand that such specificity with
respect to sequence is not actually required.
Description of Embodiments
[00031] Referring firstly to Figs. I to 3 of the accompanying drawings, a cooker 1 in the form of
a barbecue according to a preferred embodiment is illustrated. The barbecue 1 utilises solid
fuel, such as charcoal and briquettes (not shown), which undergoes combustion to produce heat
for cooking food.
[00032] As shown in Figs. 1 to 3, the barbecue 1 comprises a generally rectangular body 10
having a base portion 11 with footings or legs 12 for supporting the barbecue 1 on a generally
flat surface, such as on a bench-top or table. The body 10 of the barbecue 1 includes a lid or
cover 13 which is designed to fit over and cover an upper surface 14 of the body 10 when the
barbecue is not in use in order to protect parts of the barbecue 1 from the weather in an outdoor
environment, and especially to prevent ingress of water. In Fig. 1 the lid or cover 13 is shown in
a position where it has been removed from the upper surface 14 of the body 10 and placed
resting on an edge thereof behind the body 10. In this regard, the rear side of the body 10 may
optionally include a fixture or bracket (not shown) for receiving and holding the lid or cover 13
when it is removed from the upper surface 14 of the barbecue body 10.
[00033] The generally rectangular body 10 of the barbecue 1 includes a chamber 15 that is
designed to receive the solid fuel, e.g., charcoal or briquettes (not shown), for combustion and
thus acts as a firebox for combustion of the solid fuel. To this end, a fuel support structure 20 is
provided for supporting the solid fuel in the chamber 15. In this embodiment, the fuel support
structure 20 comprises a removable tray or basin 21 to hold and support the charcoal or
briquettes. The chamber 15 of the body 10 opens to the upper surface 14 for introducing the
tray or basin 21 into the chamber or firebox 15 and for placing the solid fuel onto the support
structure 20 from above. The tray or basin 21 is typically shaped and sized to generally match
the dimensions of the chamber 15 such that the tray or basin 21 is configured to sit and nest
neatly within the chamber 15. In this regard, it will be seen from Fig. 1 that the chamber 15 is

                                                  8
essentially defined by inner walls 16, 17 of the body 10. More particularly, inner side walls 16
and an inner base wall 17 define the chamber 15 and a base of the tray or basin 21 seats against
the inner base wall 17 when the tray or basin 21 for the solid fuel is received and accommodated
in the chamber 15. The fuel support structure 20 is typically formed from sheet metal; it may,
for example, be pressed or drawn. As an example, it may be formed from steel, such as stainless
steel. It may also be coated, e.g., enamelled, for additional durability and corrosion resistance.
Indeed, such materials may be employed for the fabrication of the various component parts of
the barbecue 1.
[00034] As can be seen in Figs. 1 and 2, the fuel support structure 20 includes an opening 22
formed in the base of the rectangular basin or tray 21 and an insert 23, which is configured to be
received and to seat within that opening 22. The insert 23 is in the form of a plate member and
forms a thermally-conductive portion of the fuel support structure 20 for covering a heating
element of the barbecue 1 to be described in detail below. In this regard, it will be noted that,
although the entire fuel support structure 20 may be thermally conductive, the insert 23 is
specifically designed to have high thermal conductivity and may be manufactured from any
suitable material, such as stainless steel. The plate-like insert 23 is generally flat, disc-shaped
and has an upper surface 24, a lower surface 25, and a plurality of holes or apertures 26 that
extend through it between the upper and lower surfaces 24, 25. When the solid fuel is placed
onto the support structure 20, the insert 23 should be substantially covered by the fuel such that
it is in direct physical and thermal contact with upper surface 24 of the plate-like insert 23. The
basin or tray 21 of the fuel support structure 20 also includes four dimples or indentations 27
formed or pressed in the base thereof which interact with complementary elements (not shown)
in the inner base wall 17 of the chamber 15 for locating and securely positioning fuel support
structure 20 in the chamber 15 during use.
[00035] With particular reference to Fig. 1, it will be noted that the barbecue 1 further comprises
an ignition system 30 for igniting the solid fuel. In particular, the ignition system 30 includes an
electric heating element 31 which is accommodated in a recess 18 which is formed in or defined
by the body 10 of the barbecue 1 below the fuel support structure 20. Details of the shape and
configuration of the electric heating element 31 are illustrated in Figs. 4 and 5 of the drawings.
In particular, the heating element 31 comprises an elongate body 32 which extends in a coiled
configuration to produce a generally flat or planar circular shape. As seen in Fig. 5, the elongate
body 32 includes an electrical resistance heating wire 33 (e.g., Cr2ONi8O) which extends

                                                    9
through its length and interconnects a pair of electrical connectors 34. The heating wire 33 is
encased in a sheath 35 of electrically insulating and thermally conductive material (e.g., MgO)
and may further comprise a cover layer 36 of stainless steel (e.g., SUS304). The heating
element 31 is configured to be powered by usual town main electricity supply of 230 V / 120 V.
The heating element 31 may be rated at 1800 W / 1400 W (+ 5% - 10%) and 1800V/0.5mA/S
for a current of 0.5mA with a resistance of 10 ME2. The electrical connectors 34 extending from
the elongate body 32 are preferably designed for movement of the heating element 31 after its
insertion in an electrical socket (not shown) in the recess 18. In particular, a collar or fixture 34'
on the electrical connectors 34 may be designed to permit the heating element 31 to swivel or
pivot (e.g. upwardly out of the recess 18) to facilitate cleaning of the heating element 31 itself
and of the barbecue body 10 (i.e. to remove ash and accumulated grime) when not in use.
[00036] The electric heating element 31 of the ignition system 30 is therefore mounted in the
body 10 of the barbecue 1 and arranged immediately below the fuel support structure 20 in the
chamber 15 such that the heating element 31 is directly below and covered by the plate-like
insert 23, which protects the heating element 31. The heating element 31 is thus in thermal
contact with the lower surface 25 of the plate-like insert 23, and radiant heat can be transferred
from the heating element 31 to the solid fuel (e.g. charcoal or briquettes) supported by the fuel
support structure 20 via the insert 23 itself and via the holes or apertures 26 in the insert 23. The
electric heating element 31 is thus configured and arranged for heating the solid fuel (e.g.
charcoal or briquettes) supported by the support structure 20.
[00037] The ignition system 30 further includes a controller (not shown) having a user interface
37 and a switch 38 operable for activating and deactivating the electric heating element 31. In
particular, the switch 38 in this embodiment comprises a manually operable button incorporated
in a front panel of the body 10 of the barbecue 1. In this regard, when it is pressed by a user, the
switch or button 38 is operable between a first state, in which the electric heating element 31 is
electrically energized (i.e., switched "on"), and a second state, in which the electric heating
element 31 is electrically de-energized (i.e., switched "off"). When the button 38 is switched
"on" or operated to the first state, the heating element 31 is configured and arranged to transfer
heat very quickly to the solid fuel supported on the support structure 20 to ignite the solid fuel.
As will be seen in Fig. 3, which illustrates the user interface 37 in more detail, the ignition
system 30 optionally includes a further switch 39, again embodied in the form of a button, for
otherwise regulating operation of the heating element 31. The controller (which may include

                                                   10
e.g., a programmable microcontroller) of the ignition system 30 is operatively connected to the
switch 38 and is configured to operate the switch 38 from the first ("on") state to the second
("off') state when a predetermined or pre-set period of time has elapsed following the operation
of switch 38 to the first ("on") state. The predetermined period of time is typically in the range
of 5 to 10 mins, e.g., about 7 or 8 minutes. In other words, after this relatively short period of
time, the heating element 31 of the ignition system 30 will have sufficiently ignited the solid
fuel to enable cooking on the barbecue to commence. In addition to the insert 23 of the fuel
support structure 20 providing effective heat transfer from the heating element 31 to the solid
fuel supported in the basin or tray 21 in order to ignite the fuel, the plate-like insert 23 also acts
to shield or protect the heating element 31 from direct contact with the burning charcoal or
briquettes following the ignition. This contributes to a longer life of the heating element 31.
[00038] With reference again to drawing Fig. 1, it will be seen that the barbecue 1 also includes
a cooking grill 19 which is designed to be removably received on the top of the body 10 spaced
above the fuel support structure 20 holding the hot charcoal or briquettes (or the like) generating
the heat for cooking. In particular, the cooking grill 19 is configured to be seated or mounted
lying flat above the firebox or chamber 15 and the food items to be cooked are then placed on
the grill 19 in the usual manner.
[00039] Although not shown in the drawings, it will be noted that the ignition system 30 further
comprises an electric cable for connecting the barbecue 1 to an electrical power supply; e.g., via
a conventional plug and socket connection. In this way, electrical power may be supplied to the
electric heating element 31 during ignition of the solid fuel. The electric cable (not shown) is
wound on a spool (not shown) that is mounted within the body 10 of the barbecue 1, preferably
in a thermally insulated compartment or a compartment sufficiently remote from the chamber 15
to avoid heat damage to the cable. The spool is provided with a torsional bias by a spring (not
shown) such that the electrical cable may be unwound from the spool by applying a tensile force
to extend the cable by a sufficient length to connect with the electrical power supply socket.
After the ignition of the solid fuel is complete, the electrical cable can be disconnected from the
electrical power supply socket and then retracted and rewound back on to the spool using the
torsional bias of the spring.
[00040] With reference to Figs. 6 to 8 of the drawings, another embodiment of a barbecue 1 is
illustrated. In this case, the body 10 of the barbecue is larger, and the barbecue 1 is configured

                                                     11
in a trolley style, such that this version is clearly designed to stand on the ground, and includes
wheels 40 on at least some of the legs or footings 13 and handles 41 for moving the barbecue 1
to a desired position. As the body 10 of the barbecue 1 in this embodiment is generally larger,
the chamber or firebox 15 is somewhat larger than in the embodiment of Figs. 1 to 3, as is the
fuel support structure 20 which is received in and removable from the chamber 15. It will also
be noted that the body 10 includes doors 42 in a front side of the barbecue 1 providing access to
a storage compartment within the body 10 below the chamber 15. However, apart from general
dimensions, the structure and operation of the parts of the barbecues 1 in this embodiment, such
as the ignition system 30, remain substantially unchanged from the embodiment of Figs. I to 3.
[00041] Referring now to Figs. 9 and 10 of the drawings, a different embodiment of a cooker 1
is illustrated in the form of an outdoor oven or smoker. This oven or smoker 1 shown in Figs. 9
and 10 has a lid or hood 13 which is hinged to the body 10 and which is designed to cooperate
with the body 10 to enclose a cooking space or cavity when it is in the closed position. The oven
or smoker 1 of this embodiment is again for solid fuel, such a wood chips, charcoal, briquettes
or the like, and to this end incorporates an ignition system 30 as described above in connection
with the embodiment of Figs. 1 to 3. In this embodiment, however, the user interface 37
comprises a screen 43, such as a touch screen, which incorporates a switch 38 for activating and
deactivating the heating element 31, as well as an optional additional switch 39 for controlling
the oven or smoker 1. The screen 43 is preferably configured to provide a user of the cooker
with information on the operational state of the cooker 1, such as one or more of: (i) a current
state of the switch 38, (ii) a temperature, e.g., a temperature within the cooking chamber and/or
a grill temperature, and (iii) time remaining until the predetermined period of time has elapsed
for ignition of the solid fuel. In addition, control buttons or switches 44 may be provided for a
user to set or input desired operating parameters of the cooker 1, including the predetermined
ignition time for the electric heating element 31. The ignition system 30 in all of the
embodiments described herein preferably includes a thermal sensor (not shown) for monitoring
the temperature within the chamber or firebox 15. In particular, the thermal sensor (which may
take the form of a thermostat) is designed to cut power to the electric heating element 31 if the
temperature in the chamber 15 exceeds a pre-set or predetermined threshold temperature. This
effectively prevents actuation of the heating element 31 if the firebox or chamber 15 is already
full of burning fuel (e.g., charcoal burning at approx. 600 C) such that additional undesirable
heat loading, that could lead to premature deterioration of the heating element 31 or of the
electrical elements of the ignition system 30, may be avoided.

                                                  12
[00042] Although specific embodiments of the invention are illustrated and described herein, it
will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a variety of alternative and/or
equivalent implementations exist. It should be appreciated that the exemplary embodiment or
exemplary embodiments are examples only and are not intended to limit the scope, applicability,
or configuration in any way. Rather, the foregoing summary and detailed description will
provide those skilled in the art with a convenient road map for implementing at least one
exemplary embodiment, it being understood that various changes may be made in the function
and arrangement of elements described in an exemplary embodiment without departing from the
scope as set forth in the appended claims and their legal equivalents. Generally, this application
is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the specific embodiments discussed herein.
[00043] It will also be appreciated that in this document the terms "comprise", "comprising",
"include", "including", "contain", "containing", "have", "having", and any variations thereof, are
intended to be understood in an inclusive (i.e. non-exclusive) sense, such that the process,
method, device, apparatus or system described herein is not limited to those features or parts or
elements or steps recited but may include other elements, features, parts or steps not expressly
listed or inherent to such process, method, article, or apparatus. Furthermore, the terms "a" and
"an" used herein are intended to be understood as meaning one or more unless explicitly stated
otherwise. Moreover, the terms "first", "second", "third", etc. are used merely as labels, and are
not intended to impose numerical requirements on or to establish a certain ranking of
importance of their objects.

                                                  13
CLAIMS
1.  A cooker, such as a barbecue, comprising:
           a body defining a chamber configured to act as a firebox for combustion of solid
    fuel, such as charcoal or briquettes;
           a fuel support structure for supporting solid fuel in the chamber; and
           an ignition system for igniting solid fuel supported by the fuel support structure, the
    ignition system comprising: at least one electric heating element mounted to the body for
    heating solid fuel supported by the fuel support structure; and a switch operable between a
    first state, in which the at least one electric heating element is electrically energized, and a
    second state, in which the at least one electric heating element is electrically de-energized,
           wherein the at least one electric heating element is configured and arranged to
    transfer heat to solid fuel supported by the fuel support structure to ignite the solid fuel
    when the switch is operated to the first state.
2.  The cooker according to claim 1, wherein the ignition system includes a controller that is
    operatively connected to the switch, the controller being configured to operate the switch
    from the first state to the second state automatically after a predetermined period of time in
    the range of about 5 minutes to about 10 minutes has elapsed following operation of the
    switch to the first state.
3.  The cooker according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the fuel support structure is
    configured as a basin or a tray for holding the solid fuel, wherein the chamber has an upper
    opening or is upwardly open for introducing the solid fuel onto the fuel support structure
    from above, wherein the at least one electric heating element is located in or adjacent the
    chamber, and wherein the fuel support structure is configured to be arranged in the
    chamber above the at least one electric heating element, the fuel support structure
    including a thermally conductive insert, such as a plate member, having a lower surface
    arranged immediately above the at least one heating element and an upper surface for
    thermal contact with the solid fuel, wherein the insert includes a plurality of apertures
    there-through between the lower surface and the upper surface.

                                                14
4. A cooker, such as a barbecue, comprising:
          a body defining a chamber for combustion of solid fuel, such as charcoal or
   briquettes;
          a fuel support structure for supporting solid fuel in the chamber;
          a cooking grill for supporting food items to be cooked spaced above the solid fuel
   supported on the fuel support structure in the chamber; and
          an ignition system for igniting solid fuel supported by the fuel support structure, the
   ignition system comprising at least one electric heating element mounted to the body for
   heating solid fuel supported by the fuel support structure, the at least one electric heating
   element configured to be switched between an electrically energized or "on" state and an
   electrically de-energized or "off" state;
          wherein the at least one electric heating element is arranged to transfer heat to solid
   fuel supported by the fuel support structure to ignite the solid fuel when it is switched to
   the energized or "on" state, wherein the at least one electric heating element is elongate
   and extends in a convoluted or serpentine configuration to concentrate heat transfer to the
   solid fuel on the fuel support structure; and
          wherein the fuel support structure is configured as a basin or a tray for holding the
   solid fuel in the chamber above the at least one electric heating element, the fuel support
   structure including an insert, such as a plate member, having a lower surface arranged
   above the at least one heating element and an upper surface for contact with the solid fuel.
5. A cooker, such as a barbecue, comprising:
          a body defining a chamber to act as a firebox for combustion of solid fuel, such as
   charcoal or briquettes;
          a fuel support structure for supporting solid fuel in the chamber; and
          an ignition system for igniting solid fuel supported by the fuel support structure, the
   ignition system comprising at least one electric heating element mounted to the body for
   heating solid fuel supported by the fuel support structure, the at least one electric heating
   element being switchable to an electrically energized or "on" state and to an electrically
   de-energized or "off' state and being configured and arranged to transfer heat to solid fuel
   supported by the fuel support structure to ignite the solid fuel when switched to the
   electrically energized or "on" state;

                                            15
       wherein the ignition system includes a controller that is configured to switch the at
least one electric heating element from the "on" state to the "off' state automatically after a
predetermined period of time in the range of about 2 minutes to 20 minutes has elapsed;
       wherein the fuel support structure is configured as a receptacle, such as a basin or a
tray, for holding the solid fuel and the chamber is upwardly open for introducing the solid
fuel onto the fuel support structure from above, wherein the at least one electric heating
element is located in or adjacent the chamber and the fuel support structure is arranged in
the chamber above the at least one electric heating element; and
       wherein the fuel support structure includes a removable insert that covers the at least
one heating element, the removable insert having a plurality of apertures there-through.
                             Shriro Australia Pty Limited
               Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                              SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
