                          A COMPOSTABLE TABLEWARE
                                       Abstract
A compostable tableware formed of a combination of rice husks or corn husks and a
decomposable binder in the form of a gelatinised starch of particularly potato starch
or wheat starch , a form of organic acid, a form of plasticizer and water.

                                                I
                                 A COMPOSTABLE TABLEWARE
   Field of the Invention
 5 [001]The present invention relates to a compostable tableware and in particular to a
   compostable tableware. The present invention is intended for food contact use. The
   material is not limited to food contact application, but the nature of such an application
   tends to govern the type of raw materials that are permitted.
   [002] The invention has been developed primarily for use in/with compostable
10 tableware that can be used for one use situations such as take away food and will be
   described hereinafter with reference to this application.             However, it will be
   appreciated that the invention is not limited to this particular field of use.
   [003]Background of the Invention
15 [004] A problem with disposable tableware such as that used by fast food outlets is
   that they are single use articles. Further after such single use the entire article is
   usually a total waste product that is disposed of in rubbish/garbage bins and sent to
   landfill. Therefore, the product has the problem of single use of good material and
   total landfill wastage after one use.
20 [005] Initially the disposable tableware was formed from plastic. However, many
   plastics take many decades of years to decompose and some do not decompose at
   all. Therefore, the landfill remains inert and rendered useless. If such products are
   not properly disposed of in landfill, this increase of non-decomposable product can
   result in strewn rubbish across the roadways and surrounding environment. This can
25 cause direct damage to wildlife in the waterways and other environments and cause
   a general health issue. With no means of decomposition this environment can only
   be repaired by further action of collection of the strewn rubbish and to then transport
   it to landfill. This primary and secondary rubbish collection is costly, wasteful and of
   short term benefit in ensuring it is in landfill. That is it still is a non-decomposable
30 product and still forms a long term concern in this waste format.
   [006] This problem has been further exacerbated when fast food outlets went to use
   polystyrenes due to its apparent benefit as a single use heat resistant. Polystyrene
   is an inexpensive and hard plastic and probably polyethylene or polypropylene is

   more common. The polystyrene is also in the form of foam packaging and insulation
   and therefore used to make drinking cups and food containers.
   [007] When polystyrene is sent to the landfill, it is quickly covered. This process
   deprives the covered waste of water and oxygen, which would normally help it to
 5 break down. When polystyrene breaks down, it merely breaks down into ever smaller
   pieces of polystyrene. This is true for the majority of plastics used to make food
   packaging, including polyethylene and polypropylene. These small pieces of plastic
   (also known as micro-plastics) remain inert, and generally cannot be used by
   surrounding microorganisms. Micro-plastics pose a risk to wildlife, especially marine
10 life and birds. There is widespread documentation of harm caused by wildlife
   ingesting small pieces of plastics, mistaking it for food. Most of the disposable plastic
   food packaging we use today will take at least 500 years to decompose; the negative
   impact of this disposed packaging is continuous and ongoing. It is therefore
   imperative that alternate, wildlife-friendly food containers be developed.
15 [008]Also there are problems with polystyrene in use as it contains the toxic
   substances styrene and benzene, which are suspected carcinogens and neurotoxins
   that are hazardous to humans. Hot foods and liquids are believed to start a partial
   breakdown of the polystyrene, causing some toxins to be absorbed into our
   bloodstream and tissue. Further there can be a degradation of food. It is believed
20 that food and particularly food which contains vitamin A are more prone to
   degradation in such polystyrene food containing articles.
   [009] Polypropylene is the most common plastic after polyethylene. Many restaurants
   serve takeaway food in transparent polypropylene containers. Many restaurants will
   also provide customers with such boxes to take home their unfinished meals.
25 [0010]     Single use     petrochemical-based plastic food containers, including
   polystyrene and polypropylene containers, are a ubiquitous part of the food industry.
   The sheer volume of such containers produced is cause for concern due to their
   persistent environmental impact after disposal.
   [0011]     According to a study published by the journal Sciences Advances in 2017
30 regarding all the plastic ever produced on earth: Up until 2015, the global human
   population as a collective has produced 6.3 billion metric tonnes of plastic waste. Only

                                                  -3
   9% was recycled. 12% was incinerated, and 79% ended up in landfill or the natural
   environment.
   [0012]      There has been a move away from polystyrene and polypropylene to use
   paper and cardboard products. This has the benefit of being more decomposable. It
 5 also has some benefit in being able to be made from recycled paper or cardboard.
   However, there is the problem in strength integrity and water permeability. Also,
   unless there is a complex fluting sandwich layering of paper sheets, there is not a
   sufficient temperature gradient that allows the user to hold a hot drink in such paper
   cup. A paper cup therefore is not merely a simple paper product but an engineered
10 product of multilayers and a chemical product to stop water permeability.
   [0013]      Also, there are problems in the manufacturing processes. It takes a lot of
   energy to create paper products. This includes the heating, steaming and processing
   steps used in formation of paper products, while trying to avoid or limit further
   degradation of the length of the lignocellulosic fibrous material. Also in recycling there
15 is a concern that the bleaching processes to remove print or the print itself on the
   paper or the chalk fillers are toxins, are difficult to process and are using at least as
   much energy to process as if processing from new wood supply.
   [0014]      Making paper products from virgin wood supply can mitigate these
   problems, but causes substantial problems when natural forests are logged to obtain
20 this new wood. Logging of new wood from natural forests contributes to habitat
   destruction of animal species, and has a causal effect on climate change due to the
   loss of natural carbon sinks.
     [0015]     It can be seen that known tableware has the problems of:
                      a) source of material
25                    b) value or cost of source material
                      c) difficulty of production
                      d) limitation of usage
                      e) structural integrity
                      f) toxicity
30                    g) wastage

                     h) environmental cost and effect of wastage
   [0016]      The present invention seeks to provide a compostable tableware, which
   will overcome or substantially ameliorate at least one or more of the deficiencies of
   the prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
 5 [0017]      The present invention is currently intended for food contact use. However,
   the material is not limited to food contact applications. The nature of being intended
   for food contact use means that there is strict governance on the types of raw
   materials that are permitted. In a nutshell, for the material to be approved for food
   contact use, the choice of all components in the material must be recognised as
10 generally safe, and/or be approved for food contact use. This varies according to
   country, but Australia mainly looks toward European Standards and American FDA
   standards. In the case of FDA standards, all ingredients within a food contact material
   must be GRAS (generally recognised as safe) or prior sanctioned. More information
   can be found by accessing the relevant government websites for the specific
15 standards. It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein,
   such reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of
   the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
   [0018]      Summary of the Invention
20 [0019]      According to a first aspect of the present invention, a compostable
   tableware is provided by a compostable tableware comprising
     *   a shaped tableware;
     *   the body of the tableware formed substantially from decomposable material
     *   the decomposable material is held together by a decomposable binder
25 wherein the compostable tableware can be used as a tableware for supporting food.
   [0020]      The compostable tableware can further comprise a decomposable food
   contactable surface on an upper side wherein the compostable tableware can hold
   food and not affect flavour of food.
   [0021]      Preferably the decomposable food contactable surface is formed by the
30 decomposable material and can hold food and not affect flavour of food.

   [0022]      However,     in another   form   the  compostable     tableware  has   the
   decomposable food contactable surface formed by a decomposable layer over the
   decomposable      material, which allows the user to hold the food with the
   decomposable layer preventing any effect on the flavour, taste or smell of the food.
 5 [0023]      Preferably the decomposable food contactable surface layer is biologically
   inert but structurally decomposable.
     [0024]    The compostable tableware can be one of:
                   * A bowl
                   *A plate
10 wherein the compostable tableware can be used as a food container.
     [0025]    However, in other forms the compostable tableware can be one of:
     *  A shaped handheld open top container
     *  A shaped handheld closable open top container
     wherein the compostable tableware can be used as a single use food container.
15 [0026]      Preferably the compostable tableware is formed from waste product
   [0027]      In one form the waste product includes such waste primary products such
   as corn husk.
   [0028]      In another form the compostable tableware is formed by the waste product
   which includes such waste processed products such as linen fibres.
20 [0029]      Preferably the waste product includes a combination of such waste
   primary products and waste processed products.
   [0030]      The compostable tableware can have the binders holding decomposable
   material together including at least one of a range of gelatinised starches.
   [0031]      The compostable tableware can further comprise a compostable
25 tableware formed from waste product including such products allowing variability of
   construction by mouldability and by mixtures of materials and by addition of surface
   coatings for food segregation and to avoid taste contamination.
   [0032]      The waste product can be held together by gelatinised starches that act
   as binders.

                                               V
   [0033]      It can be seen that the invention of a compostable tableware provides the
   benefit of usage of product which otherwise does not fulfil the benefit of compostability
   while not affecting food taste, smell and safety.
   [0034]      According to a second aspect of the present invention, a compostable
 5 tableware is provided by a compostable tableware formed from waste product
   including such products as corn husk and held together by gelatinised starches that
   act as binders.
   [0035]      According to a third aspect of the present invention, a compostable
   tableware is provided by a waste product including such tableware, allowing variability
10 of construction by mouldability and by mixtures of materials and by addition of surface
   coatings for food segregation and to avoid taste contamination.
   [0036]      In a particular form of the compostable tableware it is formed from waste
   product, including such waste products as corn husk combined with or without linen
   fibres and held together by gelatinised starches that act as binders; wherein the
15 compostable tableware can be substantially assembled with improved usability and
   disposability including from any one or more of the following benefits:
                    i. improvements in structure
                   ii. Improvements in structural integrity including better construction
                 iii.  Improvements in compostability
20               iv.   Improvements in usage of otherwise waste product
                  v.   Improvements in minimizing loss of new material for single use
                       takeaway food containers.
   [0037]      Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
25 [0038]      Brief Description of the Drawings
   [0039]      Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the
   present invention, preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described, by
   way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:

   Fig. 1 is a diagrammatic view of a compostable tableware in accordance with a
   preferred embodiment of the present invention that can be used for one use
   situations such as take away food;
    Fig. 2 is a summary diagrammatic view of a method of forming of compostable
 5 tableware including the preprocessing steps and processing steps of forming
    compostable tableware that can be used for one use situations such as take
    away food in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;
    Fig. 3 is a selection step of ingredients to form the material to form the
    compostable tableware that can be used for one use situations such as take
10  away food in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;
    Fig. 4 is a diagrammatic view of the different forms of treatment in the production
    of a compostable tableware in accordance with the invention including chemical
    and physical treatments;
    Fig. 5 is a diagrammatic view of a method of forming of compostable tableware
15  including the preprocessing steps of forming compostable tableware that can
    be used for one use situations such as take away food in accordance with a
    preferred embodiment of the present invention;
    Fig. 6 is a diagrammatic view of a method of forming of compostable tableware
    including the      processing    steps after preprocessing     steps    of forming
20  compostable tableware that can be used for one use situations such as take
    away food in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;
    Figs 7 to 10 are a more detailed process of manufacture which includes a
    combination of different processes of creating a compostable tableware of
    consistent material constituents or a layered patterned compostable tableware
25 257 which includes the industrial steps of:
      i) Sheet extrusion
      ii) Die cutting;
      iii) Rolling layers together; and
      iv) Ram press moulding or compression moulding.
30  Figs 11 and 12 are diagrammatic views of a more detailed process of
    manufacture includes a combination of different processes of creating a

                                                 0
         compostable tableware of a layered patterned compostable tableware which
         includes the industrial steps including in accordance with a preferred
         embodiment of the present invention including the steps of:
           i) Sheet extrusion
 5         ii) Die cutting;
           iii) Rolling different layers together; and
           iv) Ram press moulding or compression moulding.
         Figs 13 to 17 are diagrammatic graphical views of the interrelationship of
         component elements including:
10         i) Starch to water ratio for effective starch
           ii) Effective starch amount and binding strength
           iii) Corn husk size and ratio
   [0040]       Description of the Preferred Embodiments
15 [0041]       It should be noted in the following description that like or the same
   reference numerals in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
   [0042]       Referring to the drawings and particularly Fig. 1, there is shown a
   compostable tableware 155 that can be used for one use situations such as take
   away food.
20 [0043]       In one form a compostable tableware formed from waste product but more
   particularly formed from waste product including such products as corn husk with or
   without linen fibres and held together by gelatinised starches that act as binders.
   [0044]       In still another form the invention includes a compostable tableware
   formed from waste product which allow variability of construction by mouldability and
25 by mixtures of materials and by addition of surface coatings for food segregation and
   to avoid taste or smell contamination.
   [0045]       Still further there can be in one embodiment the basic formula of the
   compostable tableware which is formed from:
       a) At least one type of natural fibre
30     b) A binder in the form of gelatinised starch
       c) A form of organic acid

       d) A form of plasticizer
       e) Water
       f) Preservatives may be included
 5 [0046]       In a particular preferred form there is provided a particular method of
   construction, including steps of construction that provides the stable base and allows
   variability of construction by mouldability.
   [0047]       It can be seen that the invention involves a number of components
   including:
10             a.   selection of materials;
               b. processes including pre-processing of material and post processing of
                   combined material; and
               c. overall approach to effect the synergistic result.
   [0048]      With regard to materials, in a preferred form of the invention with the
15 intention of it being biodegradable and fully compostable in the right, care is ensured
   that all included raw materials are organic in nature (and therefore able to
   decompose) and pose no harm to the soil environment. Furthermore, some
   components are beneficial to plants. For example, potassium from potassium sorbate
   is an essential plant nutrient and is commonly found in commercial fertiliser.
20   [0049]     Referring to Fig. 3, the raw materials that make up these embodiments can
         be divided into seven broad categories; as follows:
                      a)    Natural Fibres
                      b)    Water
                      c)    Gelatinised Starch
25                    d)    Acids
                      e)    Preservatives
                      f)    Cross linking agents
                      g)    Plasticisers
30 [0050]       Referring to Figs. 5 to 10 with regard to a method of forming compostable
   tableware, there is included in a preferred form of the invention the steps of:
       a) Pre-procedure of preparation of waste material

                                               IV
       b) Procedure of selection of the material for the compostable tableware to be
          formed from a combination of:
                    i)   At least one type of waste material in the form of a natural fibre
                    ii) A binder in the form of gelatinised starch
 5                  iii) A form of organic acid
                    iv) A form of plasticizer
                    v) Water
                    vi) Preservatives may be included
       c) Procedure of creating mouldable material
10     d) Procedure of forming mouldable compostable tableware from mouldable
           material
     [0051]   Method
   [0052]      Referring to Figure 1 there is shown a method of forming of compostable
15 tableware 110 including the steps of providing of waste consumable in step 111 and
   Pre-procedure of preparation of the waste material in step 112.
   [0053]     Then in step 113 there is the combination of ingredients to form the material
   including the Procedure 120 of selection of the combination of ingredients for the
   compostable tableware as shown in Figure 2.
20 [0054]      From this created material or putty formed from Procedure of creating
   mouldable material there is the Procedure of forming mouldable compostable
   tableware from the mouldable material in step 114 which is finally treated in step 115
   to form a useable shaped compostable tableware wherein compostable tableware
   provides a stable base and allows variability of construction by mouldability
25 [0055]     The pre-processing method 112 currently used is divided into two stages,
   dependent on the fibre:
              The cleaned fibres are sheared down into the appropriate length.
                    i)          For fibres such as cornhusk, this first shearing step is
              carried out against the grain.
30                  ii)   If the cotton/linen used is recycled fabric the direction of
              shearing should be in line or perpendicular with the weave.

                                                  11
                    iii)         If the cotton/linen use is in strands, then only the first step
              is required (such as for string) unless in the case of thick rope.
   [0056]      The shortened fibres are then further broken down into the appropriate
   width. This can use a wet shearing method through the use of an apparatus such as
 5 a domestic blender and food processor, whereby the fibres are sheered with the
   addition of water, results in a more even fibre size and less dust. This is especially the
   case with fibres that are rigid when dry, such as cornhusk. Another form is a dry
   shearing method has been successfully use in case of cotton/linen cloth. In the case
   of rope, the strands would need to be pulled apart.
10 [0057]      As shown in a diagrammatic example in Fig. 5 the method for pre
   processing cornhusk 112 for use in making compostable tableware comprises the
   steps of:
               1.   Step 141 has the cornhusks removed from the corncob, or otherwise
                    obtained as a bi-product of other processes requiring corn. The
15                  cornhusks are picked and cleaned to remove any dirt and insects.
               2.   The cornhusks may either be fresh or dried. If the processed
                    cornhusks will be stored indefinitely, the fresh husks are dehydrated
                    after cleaning.
               3.   As per step 142 the cornhusks are cut into 7-10mm long strips
20                  against the grain.
               4.    In step 143, the cornhusks are processed with water, sheared until
                    the strips are separated into fibres.
               5.    In step 144 the cornhusk strips are boiled in vat of hot water for
                    approx 30 mins until softened. This step also kills any bacteria
25                  present. A preservative may be added at this stage, so it has a
                    chance to soak into the husks.
               6.   The processed cornhusks undergoes a process to remove water until
                    about 70% water in weight remains.
               7.    In step 145, the pulp is pressed into blocks of equal weight and
30                  frozen.

                                                 I
   [0058]      Referring to Figure 3 there is shown a method of construction of
   compostable tableware including the procedure 120 of the selection of the material
   for the compostable tableware to be formed from a combination of ingredients.
   [0059]      In the first step 121 there is at least one type of waste material in the form
 5 of a natural fibre which can be selected from a natural fibre. Preferably the natural
   fibre is one selected from Rice husks or Corn Husks. However, the natural fibre can
   be one selected from Linen or Paper. This later selection is less preferable as they
   incur problems in sourcing and processing.
   [0060]      In the step 122 of the selection of the gelatinised starch, this is selected
10 from one or more of the high amylose starches of:
                     a)     potato starch,
                     b)     wheat starch
                     c)     tapioca starch.
   [0061]      More preferably is the use of potato starch due to its greater versatility.
15 [0062]      In the step 123 of the selection of the organic acid is selected from one or
   more of:
                     a)     Citric acid
                     b)     vinegar
     [0063]    In the step 124 of the selection of the plasticizer is selected from one or
20       more of:
                     a)     Glycerol,
                     b)     citric acid and
                     c)     potassium sorbate
   [0064]      In Step 125 there is water added sometimes up to 20%. Preservatives may
25 also be included
   [0065]      It should be noted that the importance of selection of the materials and
   matching has been explained in detail above by experiments and result in at least the
   listed examples below.

                                               1-3
   [0066]    The diagrammatic example of the preprocessing is shown in Fig. 5 has the
   method for    pre-processing      112   and combining the     ingredients to produce
   compostable tableware comprising the steps of:
             1.    Pre-prepared cornhusk fibres are measured out.
 5           2.    The cornhusk is mixed thoroughly with the remaining ingredients.
                   This may include a form of preservative.
             3.    The mixture is heated over a very low heat with continuous agitation
                   until the starch is fully gelatinised.
   [0067]    A diagrammatic example of the processing is shown in Fig. 6 in which the
10 method for processing the ingredients 113 to produce shaped compostable tableware
   255 comprises the steps of:
             1.    Mixing the constituents in step 146 and applying heat in step 147 to
                   create a compostable tableware putty 148
             2.    The compostable tableware putty 148 is manipulated into the
15                 required form by process 114 either by hand or via mechanical
                   means. A mould may be used. At this stage, a form of compression
                   moulding is suggested for production. As an example, in step 149
                   the putty is rolled in step 149 and then placed over mould in step 150
                   and made in step 151 to comply with the shaping of the mould.
20           3.    The formed Compostable tableware putty 152 becomes compostable
                   tableware 155 when in step 153 it is baked in an oven at 1050C <
                   1200 until 90% - 95% dry.
             4.    The baked compostable tableware 155 is packaged and then stored
                   in a cool, dry place until it is required.
25           5.    At the end of its life, compostable tableware 155 can be fully
                   composted.
   [0068]    Manufacture
   [0069]    However, Referring to Figs 7 to 10, and 11 to 12 a more detailed process
   of manufacture includes a combination of different processes of creating a

                                               I 't
   compostable tableware 255 of consistent material constituents or a layered patterned
   compostable tableware 257. Both include the industrial steps including:
                     a)    Extrusion 301,
                     b)    die-cutting 302, 303
 5                   c)    rolling and combining 304, 305
                     d)    compression moulding, 306, 307 and 308, and
                     e)    heating 309 and
                     f)    cooling 310.
   [0070]      In Figs 7 to 10 there is:
10     a) STAGE ONE: EXTRUSION
   Extrusion is the process of forcing a material 251 through a suitably shaped hole by
   a ram 261 to create a long, consistent profile 252 with a specified cross-section.
   Cornhusk compostable tableware component and other Compostable tableware
   component would be fed separately into an extrusion machine to create a sheet. This
15 is fed along a conveyor 262.
       b) STAGE TWO: DIE CUTTING
   Die cutting 263 is a computer controlled process where thin sheet material is cut into
   shape using steel knives, following a preset guide. The Compostable tableware
   component sheets 253 would be cut into disks, and other Corn husk compostable
20 tableware component sheets would be cut into pattern pieces
       c) STAGE THREE: ROLLING
   The die cut pieces 253 which would be arranged and stacked in three layers 254 to
   form the pattern which is compressed when it passes through the pinch rollers 264,
   265 over the conveyor line 266. The stack is passed through rollers 264, 265 and
25 fused into one body 254 to prevent them from coming apart.
       d) STAGE FOUR: RAM PRESS MOULDING
   The fused layers 254 of Compostable tableware component are put into a ram press
   to be moulded.

                                              I1.)
   [0071]       Referring to Fig. 9, the most appropriate method of manufacturing plain
   compostable tableware is Ram Press Moulding, which is a type of compression
   moulding. This method is used to manufacture multiple replica ceramic parts with
   permanent moulds. The process is suitable for all clay, and possibly clay-like
 5 materials. It is commonly used to produce crockery so it would be a fitting process for
   compostable tableware, especially given the material Compostable tableware
   component's similarities to ceramic clay.
   [0072]       During the process of ram press moulding, also known as ramming or ram
   pressing, clay is forced into sheet geometries using permanent moulds. As the upper
10 and lower Compostable tableware ingredients are brought together, a pressure
   between 100-400 psi is provided by hydraulic ram 274 and metal frame 275 to evenly
   distributed   the   pressure across the      convex mould     276,   and substantially
   complementary convex mould 276 held therein, to produce even and uniform parts
   255.
15 [0073]       During this process, the pressure of the two mould halves 276, 277
   converging automatically cuts the flash 256 (excess material) from the part 255. The
   moulds are often made from plaster, which have a limited life span. The benefit of
   plaster is that it absorbs moisture away from the material during the moulding
   process, thereby accelerating the hardening process. The plaster moulds 276, 277
20 are secured into the metal frame 275 on the press and can be replaced whenever
   necessary.
   [0074]      There are many unknowns that surround the simple method of multi-shot
   injection moulding. As such, an alternate method of manufacturing is presented here.
   A more feasible way of manufacturing patterned compostable tableware is to use a
25 combination of multiple processes. Many "simply made" mass manufactured goods
   utilise multiple processes so the any perception of "overly complex manufacturing" is
   really a nonissue. The method is adapted from the manual Three Layer System used
   to hand make patterned product.
   [0075]      e) COMPLETING THE COMPOSTABLE TABLEWARE
30 [0076]      After forming the vessels are not yet dry. As such they would need be
   placed onto racks and into an industrial sized oven 281 to dry. The temperature would

                                               IU
   preferably not exceed 120"C and preferably be 105"C. The dried Compostable
   tableware 255 would then be cooled, stacked and packaged for distribution.
   [0077]      With reference to Figs. 11 and 12, in a particular form of the invention in
   which there is the industrial steps including:
 5                   a)    Extrusion 301,
                     b)    die-cutting 302, 303
                     c)    rolling and combining 304, 305
                     d)    compression moulding, 306, 307 and 308, and
                     e)    heating 309 and
10                   f)    cooling 310.
   [0078]      In this form at step 302 and 303 there are layers of different material or
   different colouring or different constituents. In this way there can be die cutting of
   different shapes in different layers in step 302 and overlay in step 303 of the different
   layers. Then by rolling and combining the multiple layers through the pinch rollers in
15 step 305 there is a patterned combined and compressed material that can proceed
   through the compression moulding steps 306, 307 and 308 steps. This patterned
   moulded compostable tableware 257 can proceed through the heating 309 and
   cooling steps 310 to provide a tableware that is self-supporting patterned and fully
   compostable.
20
   [0079]      Material - Natural Fibres
   [0080]      The intended application of the material is important to consider because
   otherwise an unsuitable fibre could be used.
   [0081]      This varies according to country, but Australia mostly looks toward
25 European Standards and American FDA standards because few Australian-specific
   regulations have been developed. However, a code is present in the manual of
   Australian Standards that control the migration of chemicals from packaging into food.
   In the case of FDA standards, all ingredients within a food contact material must be
   GRAS (generally recognised as safe) or prior sanctioned. In the case of natural fibres,
30 some general points to consider are:

                                                I /
               a)    If it contains pesticides, it should be within a limit that is safe for
                     humans.
               b)    The fibres should not contain any heavy metals or toxins.
               c)    Any bleaches and dyes that may leach out of prior-treated fibres
 5                   must be within a safe limit and not prove harmful to humans when
                     ingested in small amounts.
   [0082]      The primary function of natural fibres is to reinforce the material Invention
   while adding bulk. The fibres are held together by a binder, operating much like the
   role of fibreglass in resin by proving. The crossing strands of fibres provide non
10 reactive (not dependant on chemical reaction) cross-links.
   [0083]      The secondary function of the natural fibres is to give the material of the
   compostable tableware of the invention a unique aesthetic. It is a positive side effect
   of the natural fibres that increases the visual interest of the compostable tableware.
   [0084]      The choice of fibre influences the appearance of the material the most,
15 since the starch binder is white and turns translucent upon gelatinisation. There is at
   least as much fibre by volume to the starch. In essence the colour of the fibre is
   primarily the colour of the resulting compostable tableware. However natural food
   safe product colouring can be used.
   [0085]      Different types of fibres in the material can result in a different material
20 colour. In the case that different fibres are mixed, interesting patterns and colour
   combinations can be formed.
               a)    Cornhusk provides a green/yellow colour
               b)    Bleached cotton/linen provides a white colour
               c)    Unbleached hemp provides a light brown colour
25             d)    Coloured cotton/linen can provide any number of colour but the
                     colouring agents must be safe.
               e)    Natural dyes such as beetroot juice and approved food colourings
                     may be added.
   [0086]      The type of natural fibre chosen is important, and could impact the
30 performance of the material Invention. Natural fibres include but are not limited to:

                                                10
   cornhusk, cotton and linen; however, these three fibres have demonstrated to be
   successful as reinforcement in the material. Examples of other fibres include hemp,
   wool, rice husk and corn silk.
   [0087]      The natural fibre chosen should preferably be porous (such as cornhusk,
 5 cotton and linen) because it would enhance its ability to reinforce the material. A
   porous fibre works better because gelatinised starch can lodge itself into the gaps
   during the wet material preparation process, therefore when the material is dry the
   fibres are harder to pull out; the resulting material is stronger.
   [0088]      The fibres used need to be pre-processed in advance to an appropriate
10 size by mechanical means such as shearing. The fibres are currently specified to
   be <20mm long and <5mm wide. The specific size which is currently used is
   approximately 10mm long and 1mm wide. However, depending on the application
   of the material, the fibres could be much longer (for example >30mm); there is no
   specific limit as long as the fibres are adequately spread out and able to be held by
15 the binder material.
   [0089]      The amount of natural fibre used in the material Invention is currently
   between 5% and 6% by weight. However, any amount between 2% to 8% could
   work.
   [0090]      The amount of natural fibre used in the material is currently between 5%
20 and 6% by weight. At this ratio, there is approximately a 1:1 ratio of fibre to
   gelatinised starch. At this ratio the gelatinised starch is able to wrap each fibre.
   [0091]      There is little advantage in adding less than 2% by weight of natural fibre.
   Any less than 2% by weight, there would not be enough fibres to offer structural
   reinforcement. 2% is possibly the lowest limit unless the fibres are only added as a
25 colorant for visual interest.
   [0092]      However, the amount of fibres can be increased to saturation point, which
   is defined as a maximum amount of fibres that can be contained in the material on
   the condition that the gelatinised starch is able to fully envelope each fibre. This
   saturation point is estimated to be up to 8% by weight, assuming 27% of dry starch
30 by weight in the material. If more starch is added, then more fibres can be
   accommodated, but that would also affect the amount of other raw materials added.

                                               l'7
   [0093]      Water
   [0094]      There are two main functions to water. Both are applicable to when the
   material is prepared in its putty form: The first function of water is to gelatinise the
   starch component of the material.
 5 [0095]      Water is an essential component in the starch gelatinisation process.
   When heat is added to a mixture of starch and water, the starch granules swell as
   water enters the granular structure. Eventually the granules swell so much that they
   lose mechanical strength and "burst". The starch helices unwind, releasing molecular
   amylose and amylopectin. Fully gelatinised starch transforms from opaque to
10 translucent.
   [0096]      The second function of water is to act as a solvent.
   [0097]      Some components of the material need to be dissolved in water in order
   to become activated and well incorporated. This includes certain organic acids in its
   crystalline salt form such as citric acid, and preservatives in solid form such as
15 potassium sorbate.
   [0098] Citric acid must be dissolved in water in order for it to be useful in the material,
   no matter what function, because sufficient water is required for a chemical reaction
   to occur. This includes the use of citric acid to lower the pH of the material, to perform
   acid hydrolysis, and as a cross linker.
20 [0099] The preservative potassium sorbate is inactive in its salt form. Once it is
   dissolved in water it turns into sorbic acid, its active form.
   [00100]     The water in the material Invention can come from sources other than what
   is directly added. Some raw materials contain embedded water, referring to the
   amount of residue moisture left in the material.
25 [00101]     For reference, the water embedded in other materials will be named as
   "carry-over moisture". Carry-over moisture may be found in liquids such as vinegar,
   which is often sold diluted in water. Carry-over moisture may be found in the natural
   fibres being used. The natural fibres could be wet due to being cleaned in water, or
   water could be used during the shearing process; in the case of cornhusk both cases
30 apply. The exception is if the wet fibres are dehydrated before use.
   [00102]     Other ingredients may contain some carry-over moisture, but this is rather

   insignificant. For instance, starch powders are generally dried to approximately 12%
   moisture, but this level can be affected by the relative humidity of the storage conditions
   and how long the starch has been exposed to air. The amount of moisture can be as
   much as about 20%. Moisture should be controlled to minimise conditions favourable
 5 to aiding microbial growth. The amount of water in the material Invention directly affects
   its physical properties.
   [00103]      The total amount of water used in the material currently ranges between
   59%-53% by total weight. A range between 50% and 70% is acceptable. This amount
   of water is inclusive of the potential carry-over moisture contained within all the other
10 raw ingredients.
   [00104]      The exact ratio of water required in the material depends on the ratio of
   other ingredients contained within the material Invention, and their individual moisture
   levels.
   [00105]      The dryness of the natural fibres can be affected by seasonal variance,
15 and different fibres exhibit a different coefficient of water absorption potential; both of
   which need to be taken into account. For example if the natural fibre is dry and
   particularly absorbent, then more water would need to be added to the material as
   less free water would be available to the starch for gelatinisation. The current amount
   of water recommended refers to corn husk with around 30% moisture content.
20 [00106]      The same is true for starches that are particularly dry; more water would be
   necessary to fully gelatinise the starch. The amount of water in starch can be affected
   by the relative humidity of the storage conditions. The current amount of water
   recommended is for starch at around 20% moisture content.If not enough water is
   added, a number of issues arise. Water below 50% by weight is not recommended.
25 [00107]      Water allows for the ingredients to freely move around, especially when
   the starch is gelatinised because it becomes thick and viscous. If there is not enough
   water, it would too hard to stir and combine all the ingredients together evenly.
   [00108]      Since heat is required for gelatinisation, it is inevitable that some of the water
   will evaporate from the material during the process. If there is not enough water, the
30 starch may not fully gelatinise as there won't be enough water for the starch to absorb
   until it bursts. Un-gelatinised starch returns to its opaque powder form when dry. A
   clump of un-gelatinised starch will form a weak point in the material, where the material

   will crumble and break apart.
   [00109]      If there is not enough water, the ingredients that rely on being dissolved to
   be useful won't be activated. There needs to be enough water added to the material
   when it is initially being prepared to both dissolve certain ingredients and fully gelatinise
 5 the starch.
   [00110]      If too much water is added, then it will impact the curing and final form of
   the material Invention. No more than 70% weight of water is recommended.
   [00111]     Too much water will mean excessive drying and curing time. The cured
   material relies on water being expelled from the starch. The curing temperature is
10 preferably limited to about 1050C to 1200C otherwise the material may form air
   pockets and warp. This temperature range is given due to difference of heating from
   conventional ovens to fan-forced ovens due to evenness of heat dissipation. The
   curing temperature can be lower than 1050C to 1200C but the material would take
   longer to dry and cure, therefore no more water than functionally required should be
15 added.
   [00112]      More water in the material means more scope for the material to shrink
   and contract when the water is evaporated off during the drying and curing process.
   Whenever a material shrinks and contracts it is prone to warping. If the material warp
   cannot be controlled or is excessive, it becomes a quality control issue. It is best to
20 add the least water possible.
   [00113]     The material is cured after it has been formed, whereby water is expelled
   so that gelatinised starch hardens. An amount of water will still remain in the material.
   It will never be "bone dry". The recommended moisture level for the material once
   cured is between 4% and 10%, and should be kept within this range.
25 [00114]      It is not necessary to dry the material to 100% dryness during the curing
   process because it will eventually absorb some moisture from its surrounds.
   Furthermore, a cured material that is too dry is more brittle and less flexible than a
   material where a greater amount of moisture is left. A cured material with too much
   moisture may be prone to microbial grown, owing the large amount of organic matter
30 it is comprised of.

   [00115]      Gelatinised Starch
   [00116]      A function of gelatinised starch is to act as the binder that holds the natural
   fibres in the material Invention together.
   [00117]      The starch used is added to the material in its un-gelatinised powder form
 5 and undergoes a gelatinisation process when liquid containing water is added.
   [00118]      When starch is gelatinised, molecular amylose and amylopectin is
   released. Amylose and amylopectin are a type of starch polymer and may be
   referred to as a type of biological plastic (also known as bioplastic). When starch is
   stirred during gelatinisation, these polymers begin to entangle and snare, creating a
10 structure that forms the main support structure of the material.
   [00119]      When gelatinised starch retrogrades, it loses water and hardens. This
   gives the material of the compostable tableware of the invention its rigidity.
   [00120]      When gelatinised starch dries, it begins to retrograde. This most common
   example of this process is when bread goes stale; the starch component loses water
15 and becomes hard. The act of the starch expelling water as it retrogrades is called
   syneresis. This process is essential so that the material is hardened; it is the
   hardening that gives the material its strength.         For the material, this process of
   hardening will be referred to as "curing". A fully cured material is dry and no longer
   floppy, but the level rigidity is dependent on other factors.
20 [00121]      Certain starches are preferred over others, especially high-amylose starch.
    Potato starch is currently used.
   [00122]      There is evidence that starch higher in amylose creates a stronger bio
   plastic than amylopectin, and the cause may be due to the unique structures of both
   polymers. Amylopectin is short and branched while amylose is long and unbranched.
25  It was found that amylopectin-glycerol films were more brittle and less flexible than
   amylose-pectin films due to the distinct structure of the two starch polymers. The
   use of starch that is higher in amylose than amylopectin is therefore preferable.
   [00123]      All starches contain both amylose and amylopectin. Of natural (non
   chemically modified) starches, potato starch is relatively high in amylose.
30  Experiments have shown that material (Invention) made using potato starch exhibit
   less fragility than those made with other starches such as corn starch. Invention is

   therefore currently made using potato starch, but other high amylose starches such
   as wheat and tapioca could be used. There also exists on the market a number of
   starches chemically engineered to contain a very high percentage of amylose, up
   to approximately 80%.
 5 [00124]      Otherwise, natural starch can be engineered to contain more available
   amylose starch through means of acid hydrolysis, where amylopectin starch polymers
   are broken down more readily than amylose starch.
   [00125]      A function of gelatinised starch is to act as the binder that holds the natural
   fibres in the material Invention together.
10 [00126]      Gelatinised starch is able to hold the natural fires together because it is
   thick and viscous; the natural fibres become trapped in the mixture. In the case of
   porous natural fibres, there is an increase of surface area for the starch to become
   entangled in. Since the gelatinised starch used in the material undergoes acid
   hydrolysis, it becomes sticky and the natural fibres become adhered to the starch.
15 [00127]      The material Invention is currently cured at a temperature of <1050C.
   [00128]      An oven temperature of 1050C is supported as an optimal curing
   temperature in literature pertaining the making of starch films. This is also the
   temperature at which reactive cross-links are achieved.            (Such as through the
   addition of citric acid whereby citrate-starch cross-links are formed)
20 [00129]       In independent experiments, 1050C in a fan-forced oven was found to be
   the most suitable temperature for drying and curing the material of the compostable
   tableware of the invention.
     [00130] A summary of the test procedures follow:
       a) Air-drying was initially tested as an energy efficient way of drying the material,
25         but this method took nearly a week and the lack of high heat meant that the
           potential for microbial growth was real. This means that this method would be
           unsuitable for food-contact-materials.
       b) A rudimentary solar oven built from card-board and foil was tested. The
           temperature of the oven was monitored though an Arduino micro-computer
30         fitted with a DH22 Temperature and Humidity Sensor. The interior of the oven
           reached a maximum of 58.30C and the relative humidity recorded at the time

          was 7.8%. This represented the optimal conditions when the weather was
           sunny with an external air temperature of 22"C. The average temperature of
           the oven was only about 250C, so the samples took two days to dry in the
           oven. A commercial solar oven would have been much more efficient, but if
 5         this material is to be made in commercial quantities, it would still not be as
           efficient as a fan-forced oven.
       c) A conventional oven initially set to 500C then turned up to 800C meant
           excessive drying and curing time of approximately 6 hours.
       d) In a conventional oven it was found that higher temperatures such as
10         1200C caused air pockets to form, which warped the material.
       e) The temperature of 1050C is the most suitable temperature for drying and
           curing Invention. It is the hottest temperature the material can bear without
           excess deformation.
       f) The amount starch powder used in the material Invention is in the range of
15         27% and 28% by overall weight. This amount of starch yields enough
           gelatinised starch to fully encase the natural fibres of the material together,
           as well as act as the support structure of the material once dry. The properties
           of gelatinised starch are affected by water content and the presence of other
           materials.
20     g) The amount of water added to the starch plays a crucial role in how well the
           starch is gelatinised, and how thick it is.
       h) The amount of acid added to the gelatinised starch to induce starch acid
           hydrolysis also affects its structure.
       i) The amount of cross linking agents and plasticisers added to the gelatinised
25         starch also affects its structure.
   [00131]      Acids
   [00132]      The primary function of acid is to lower the pH of the material Invention,
   but a low pH is useful in a number of ways:
     [00133]    1.    A low pH induces acid hydrolysis of starch
30 [00134]      Acid hydrolysis starch refers to the act of acid breaking down and degrading

   starch polymers. Natural starch can be engineered to contain more available amylose
   starch by means of acid hydrolysis. Amylose is generally preferred over amylopectin
   when it comes to creating a stronger starch structure. Amylopectin undergoes acid
   hydrolysis more readily than amylose.
 5 [00135]     The amount of acid used determines the rate and extent of acid hydrolysis.
   Studies have shown that after the acid is added to the starch, the pH must not be higher
   than pH4.0 otherwise acid-hydrolysis may not occur.
   [00136]      Independent experiments with the material has shown that the more acid
   added, the greater the extent of hydrolysed starch. When the starch is hydrolysed, it
10 becomes sticky. An overly sticky material is hard to work with, but a slight amount of
   stickiness allows the material putty to be reformed a greater number of times before it
   begins to set and cure. Separate tests using vinegar and citric acid were performed.
   [00137]     The findings are summarised below:
     *   Material samples containing at least 50% vinegar by weight were overly sticky
15       before curing and therefore hard to work with; the material would stick to anything
         porous;
     *   Material samples containing approximately 25% vinegar by weight were just
         bearable to work with;
     *   Material samples containing below 10% vinegar became less sticky as less
20      vinegar was added;
     *   Material samples containing more citric acid were sticker than those containing
         less;
     *   Material samples containing 5% citric acid or more by overall weight were overly
         sticky;
25   0   Material samples containing 0.05% < 0.33% citric acid by overall weight were
         sticky, but workable; and
     *   Material samples containing a maximum of 0.03% citric acid by overall weight
        were not sticky.

      [00138] Table 1
            How the concentration of citric acid affects the stickiness of the material putty samples
                                      Samples at < 5%               Samples at             Samples at
            Putty stickiness
                                           glycerol              < 7.5% glycerol         < 10% glycerol
          PH 2.0 @ 5.0% citric
                  Acid                   Very sticky               Very sticky                Sticky
         PH 2.0 @ 0.33%    citric           Sticky                    Sticky                  Sticky
                  acid
         PH 2.5. @ 0.13%   citric           Sticky                    Sticky             Slightly sticky
                  acid
         PH 3.0 @ 0.05%    citric      Slightly sticky            Slightly sticky           Not sticky
                  acid
         PH 3.5 @ 0.03%    citric         Not sticky                Not sticky             (not tested)
                  acid
         PH 4.0 @ 0.01% citric        Not sticky at all          Not sticky at all         (not tested)
                  acid
   [00139]      A low pH slows down or inhibits microbial growth in organic matter
 5 [00140]      A pH level of maximum 5.5 but preferably lower, is well documented in
   literature pertaining food safety to reduce and even inhibit the ability of microbes to
   grow.
   [00141]      Microbes can only survive within a certain pH and if this is disrupted, the
   microbe is compromised. The table below charts the pH lower limits or growth range
10 for microbial growth. It is based on a chart contained in the book Handbook of Food
   Preservation. Some of the listed microbes are responsible for causing many common
   food-borne illnesses.
   [00142]      The efficacy of acids depend on their ability to equilibrate across the
   microbial cell membrane and in doing so, interfering with the pH gradient that is
15 normally maintained inside the cytoplasm of the cell and the food matrix surrounding
   it. Food is essentially a type of organic matter, so the following chart can be
   referenced for the material being developed. It does not mean it can be completely
   relied upon, but it provides a general guideline nonetheless.

     [00143] Table 2
           Mirorais                           PH
                                              ''  Rang    e Vle       isid
                                                                       H        the mi'rb
      Moulds (in general)                           1.5-11
      Yeasts (in general)                          1.5-8.5
      Bacteria (in general)                          4-9
      Acetobacterium species                       2.8-4.3                   4.0-6.0
      Bacillus acidocaldarius                      2.0-5.0                   5.9-6.1
      Camphylobacterjejuni                            5.3
      Clotridium botulinium                          4.5
      Enteroccusfaecalis                           4.4-9.1                   7.2-7.4
      Escherichiacoli                              4.4-8.7                   7.5-8.2
      Listeria monocytogenes                         4.3
      Salmonella species                              3.8
      Staphylococcus aureus                          4.0
      Yersinia enterocolitica                        4.4
   [00144]       The pH level currently set for Invention ranges between pH2.0 and pH3.0,
 5 which is sufficient against most bacteria.
   [00145]       The lowering of pH alone is not enough to offer broad spectrum protection
   against all microbes. For example moulds and yeasts can survive in extreme pH
   levels as low as pH 1.5. Therefore a low pH level is best paired with an additional
   preservative.
10 [00146]       A low pH assists in activating the full potential of preservatives. Certain
   acids, especially organic acids, also work symbiotically with preservatives to increase
   the efficacy of antimicrobial activity.
   [00147]       The activity of potassium sorbate/sorbic acid is directly affected by the
   acidity of the material in which it is added. At pH 3.0 or lower the maximum potential
15 of potassium sorbate/sorbic acid is activated. The following table shows the effect of
   different pH levels on the activity levels of sorbic acid and potassium sorbate.

                                                    Z-o
   [00148]      Table 3
          The effect of different PH levels on the activity levels of sorbic acid/potassium sorbate
            PH level of the mixture            % Active amount of Sorbic Acid / Potassium Sorbate
                       PH 3                                              98%
                       PH 4                                              85%
                       PH 5                                              37%
                       PH 6                                              5.5%
                       PH 7                                               0%
   [00149]      Citric acid itself is considered antimicrobial, but its effectiveness is most
   pronounced when it is used in tandem with another preservative whereby a synergetic
 5 effect is observed. The activity of potassium sorbate/sorbic acid is further enhanced
   by the addition of organic acids such as vinegar and citric acid.
   [00150]      A mix of >0.15% citric acid and 0.1-0.2% potassium sorbate is being
   considered for use in the material.
   [00151]      0.15% citric acid results in a material with a pH level of 2.0. Potassium
10 sorbate in its activated form becomes sorbic acid. The amount added to the material
   is unlikely to push the pH any lower, but if it does, it means that the material would
   likely be even more effect against bacteria based on pH alone.
   [00152]      Citric acid is preferable over other organic acids such as acetic acid
   (vinegar). Citric acid is more functionally versatile than acetic acid and when used as
15 part of a food contact material, is less likely to taint food.
   [00153]      This ISO (international standards organisation) definition of taint is a taste
   or odour foreign to the product. In terms of food contact materials, any food contact
   article made from the material must not impart any foreign taste or odour to the food
   it is holding.
20 [00154]      Vinegar is able to induce acid hydrolysis and as an organic acid, is
   antimicrobial to some extent. When vinegar is compared side-by-side with citric acid,
   it is more effective against certain bacteria.

   [00155]       However, vinegar has a noticeable odour that may be off-putting even in
   small amounts, especially when emitted from a food contact article. This means that
   it is highly likely to impart odour taint to food, which is unacceptable.
   [00156]       Citric acid is able to perform both aforementioned functions of acetic acid
 5 without any odorous side effects. This means it is very unlikely to impart odour taint
   to food. Furthermore, the citrate component of citric acid means it is able to form
   cross-links in starch, further enhancing the strength of the structure.
   [00157]       The issue of taste taint is another matter, and depends on the
   concentration of acid used. A taste test was performed on a number of Invention test
10 formulations containing varying amounts of citric acid. The results represent what was
   tasted directly from the material, not the taste taint effect on food. It is likely that if any
   taste taint is to occur, it would only be a fraction of what is tasted when the material
   is directly placed in the mouth and chewed.
   [00158]       The result of the experiment is summarised below:
15 [00159]       Table 4
          How difrn      ciri aci cocnrain     aec.at th diec    .he of  th maera
                                                                      .chewed)
                                                          (Control) Extreme sourness that tasted
                                                          salty.
      Citric acid crystals, one pinch   100%              After rinsing mouth out, there was
                                                          sweetness and then a strong metallic
                                                          aftertaste.
       1.5 mm thick dry wafer                             Distinct sourness that lingered, followed
      sample                           5%                 by sweetness and a metallic aftertaste
                                                          the citric acid.
       1.5 mm thick dry wafer                             Very mild sourness that remained for
      sample                           0.33%              only a second, followed by sweetness and
                                                          a metallic aftertaste - the citric acid.
       1.5 mm thick dry wafer          0.13%              No sourness detected, only a slight
      sample                                              metallic aftertaste
       1.5 mm thick dry wafer          0.05%              No taste detected
      sample
       1.5 mm thick dry wafer          0.03%              No taste detected
      sample
   [00160]       It was found that the less citric acid present in the material, the less taste
   there was in the material.           An amount of approximately 0.15% citric acid was
   previously mentioned to be an optimal amount to use as an antimicrobial in tandem

                                              _3J
   with potassium sorbate. At this concentration, no sour taste was detected from the
   material. However, there was a very slight sweet, citrus flavour. At even lower
   concentrations of citric acid, this was barely detectable. This means that it is very
   unlikely that there will be any taste or odour taint imparted from citric acid to food
 5 when used in the amounts specified. Nonetheless the material will be subject to
   approval by the relevant authorities and it may be the case that an external barrier
   coating may be required to prevent sensory taint.
   [00161]     Preservatives
10 [00162]     Preservatives will be used in Invention to extend the shelf-life of the
   material, especially when it is stored in untoward conditions such as those that are
   moist and warm. Such conditions encourage the growth of microbes which may
   adversely affect the health of consumers. The use of any combination of
   preservatives cannot be completely relied on to inhibit the growth of all microbes, but
15 what it does provide is a threshold of safety. It should be emphasised that the use of
   a preservative is not intended to compensate for poor sanitation. Good Manufacturing
   Practice dictates that all procedures associated with the manufacturing of any food
   related article must be carried out in a sanitary manner. It is in the best interest of all
   parties to main good hygiene, so care must be taken that the articles are adequately
20 packaged and stored in a suitable environment. However sometimes unpredictable
   situations occur. There is also no guarantee how the food contact articles
   (Compostable tableware) will be treated once the product is sold. It is therefore
   imperative that preservatives are used in the material Invention.
   [00163]     The effect of a low pH against microbes was the synergistic effect of
25 organic acid in enhancing the antimicrobial activity of the preservative it is paired with.
   Potassium sorbate paired with citric acid is well documented to be effective. The
   preference toward citric acid was previously explained. The rest of this section will
   highlight the main reasons potassium sorbate was chosen.
   [00164]     Potassium Sorbate has held a good safety record since its antimicrobial
30 properties were recognised in the 1940s, which has led to its widespread use in food,
   pharmaceuticals and cosmetics since it became commercially available in the 1950s.
   It is known as food additive E202. It is classified as GRAS (generally recognised as

                                               -3 1
   safe) and in the case of FDA regulations, GRAS substances are exempt from
   regulation as an indirect additive in food contact materials/articles. The FDA
   describes indirect additives as anything that migrates into food from a food contact
   material/article. This means that Potassium sorbate is exempt from indirect additive
 5 regulation. However, under Good Manufacturing Practice guidelines, the allowed limit
   of potassium sorbate (and all other additives) is the amount necessary for adequate
   function. For Invention, this is estimated to be between 0.1% - 0.2% by weight.
   [00165]     Potassium Sorbate in its crystal form is inactive, but with the addition of
   water it undergoes chemical change into its active form sorbic acid. In fact, potassium
10 sorbate is referred to as the most soluble form of sorbic acid. Its high solubility in water
   means it can be dispersed more effectively. Heat increases the solubility of potassium
   sorbate.
   [00166]     Sorbic acid also requires a low pH of <3 to be most effective. Potassium
   Sorbate is generally more effective against yeasts and moulds than bacteria, but this
15 isn't a negative aspect since yeasts and moulds can survive in extreme pH conditions.
   Bacterial growth is generally inhibited below pH 4.0, and a pH level of 2.0 -3.0 will be
   used for the material of the compostable tableware. For sorbic acid, a concentration
   that yields pH 2.0-3.0 (when mixed into what is being preserved) is adequate against
   many yeasts and moulds.
20
   [00167]     Cross linking agents
   [00168]     The purpose of using a reactive cross-linking agent in the material
   Invention is to enhance its structural strength.
   [00169]     The cross-linking of starch refers to the bond formed between one polymer
25 chain and another; it results in a strengthened material. Covalent cross-links are
   mechanically and thermally stable. Cross linking has been shown to reduce the water
   sensitivity of starch and improve barrier properties. Citric acid cross-linked starch films
   show about 150% higher strength than non-cross-linked films.
   [00170]     Borax is an effective starch cross-linker but its safety is questionable. Its
30 use in food contact materials is heavily regulated and borax must not migrate into the
   food.

                                                 -1
   [00171]     A number of substances react with gelatinised starch in its aqueous form
   to form substance-starch cross-links. The substance sodium tetraborate (more
   commonly known as borax) has exhibited promising qualities as a cross lining agent
   in starch polymer applications. Borax is a short-range cross-linker and reduces
 5 molecular slip and uncoiling under stress. In a certain study, 1% of Borax enhanced
   the ultimate tensile strength of the material by 25% and 17.9%. Borax is also a type
   of preservative. It inhibits mould, but its use is only permitted for certain applications.
   [00172]      Borax is an inexpensive and efficient cross-linking agent, but it is banned
   by the FDA as a food additive. Borax is listed as a prior sanctioned food ingredient in
10 the manufacturing of paper and paperboard products for food packaging. However
   Borax is only approved for use as an adhesive and coating, under the condition that
   it does not migrate into food. Borax is also approved for use in certain food contact
   coatings and food contact textiles. The FDA has set strict specific limits to ensure
   that the chance of any migration is very minimal.
15 [00173]      Nonetheless it is questionable to use borax in Invention. Borax is not GRAS
   (generally recognised as safe), so there is little incentive to use borax when there are
   alternatives available. When borax is heated, it produces toxic fumes - Invention
   requires heat curing to fully set. Borax is also mildly toxic when ingested.
   [00174]     A number of substances are able to form cross-links in gelatinised starch
20 but citric acid is the most suitable for use in Invention. Citric acid is not only safe, it is
   very versatile.
   [00175]     An alternative cross-linking agent to borax is citric acid. Citric Acid is
   classified as GRAS, meaning it is certainly non- toxic. It is also a food additive known
   by the code number 330, commonly found in beverages, preserves, and dairy
25 products. Citric acid has applications beyond food. For example, it is used in
   pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, and as a metal chelator (ability to donate ions). Citric
   acid as a chelator is thought to contribute to its antimicrobial properties.
   [00176]     The citrate component of citric acid is responsible for its ability to form
   starch cross-links. The interaction of starch with citric acid mainly takes place around
30 the branching points of amylopectin.
   [00177]      Beyond citric acid's usefulness in the material Invention as a cross-linking
   agent, other functional qualities that benefit the material include its antimicrobial

   properties, its acidic properties which lower the pH of the material, and its ability to
   induce starch acid hydrolysis. All such properties are equally important. The fact that
   citric acid has so many uses makes it a preferable raw material in the material for the
   compostable tableware.
 5 [00178]      Heat assists the forming of cross-links between citric acid and starch.
   [00179]      Cross-links can be initiated by chemical reaction via heat, pressure, pH or
   radiation. Citric acid cross linking of starch occurs at high temperatures, suggesting a
   curing of about 5 min at 165-170 0 C.       However cross-linking reaction is initiated at
   temperatures as low as 70 0 C and increased with curing temperature at high citric acid
10 content. Invention putty is currently baked at 105 0 C for a number of hours.
   [00180]      Calculating the optimal amount of cross-linking agent is not always
   straightforward.
   [00181]      The effect of citric acid cross-links in thin, flexible starch films has found
   that citric acid cross-linked starch films show about 150% higher strength than non
15 cross-linked films. Concentrations of citric acid less than 5% provided relatively low
   improvement in tensile (stretching) strength and concentrations above 5% decreased
   the tensile strength of the films.
   [00182]      It is generally assumed that the greater the amount of starch cross-links,
   the more rigid the material becomes. There is a point where the rigidity could turn into
20 brittleness. As mentioned, that at concentrations above 5%, excessive cross-links
   limit the mobility of starch molecules, leading to lower tensile strength. Tensile
   strength is important in flexible bioplastics but in the case of Invention, a rigid
   bioplastic is the goal.
   [00183]      The more citric acid, the more cross-links present in the gelatinised starch
25 structure; it is convenient to generalise that this would theoretically result in a harder
   material. However excess un-reacted citrate has also been observed to act as a
   plasticising agent. The addition of more cross-linking agent does not always result in a
   more rigid material, especially when all the cross-linking sites have been occupied. This
   phenomenon was observed in some embodiment material samples. Depending on the
30 amount of citric acid added, this phenomenon may mean that the resulting material is
   strong yet flexible. The rigidity is also dependant on the amount of plasticiser added to
   the material.

   [00184]      Invention test formulas currently range between 2.0% - 0.07% citric acid,
   but 0.2% -0.02% is found most suitable.
   [00185]      Despite known findings to the contrary, it is believed that this amount is
   sufficient to cross-link the starch contained in Invention. Invention material samples
 5 containing 2% citric acid (by total material weight) were very flexible, indicating that
   all the citrate-starch cross-link-sites had been occupied and there was enough free
   citric acid in the material to act as a plasticiser. Samples containing between 0.2%
   0.02% citric acid were the most rigid, likely owing to the cross-links.
10 [00186]      Plasticisers
   [00187]      The purpose of using a plasticiser in the material Invention is to reduce
   brittleness. There are currently three raw materials in the material Invention that can
   act as a plasticiser: Glycerol, citric acid and potassium sorbate. However only one
   raw material has a sole purpose of being a plasticising agent: Glycerol.
15 [00188]      The amount of glycerol used in the material for Compostable tableware
   application (compostable food vessels) needed to result in a material that was still
   mostly rigid, but not brittle. This required a number of experiments to test different
   ratios.
   [00189]      It was found that Invention material samples with a high amount of glycerol
20 became very flexible but tough, akin to leather; it could be suitable for another
   application. After all, the applications for Invention should not be limited to food
   contact articles in the form of vessels.
   [00190]      Glycerol is the only raw material that has been added to Invention with the
   sole purpose of being a plasticising agent.
25 [00191]      Glycerol (also known as glycerine) is a type of sugar alcohol. Other sugar
   alcohols such as sorbitol can be adequately substituted in place of glycerol as a
   plasticising agent. Glycerol was chosen because of its widespread use as a plasticiser
   in literature pertaining bioplastic films, which proves its efficacy. Glycerol is also the
   most widely available and most cost effective.
30 [00192]      The hardness of Invention is due to retrograded gelatinized starch, which
   relies on water being drawn out of the cooked starch. Glycerol is a humectant. Its
   hydrophilic nature means it attracts and retains moisture. The way glycerol works as

                                               -J-)
   a plasticiser is that it embeds itself between the starch polymers, allowing them to
   move even once the starch has retrograded. Glycerol acts like a lubricant at the
   molecular level by reducing friction. The more glycerol (or other plasticiser) added,
   the less brittle and more flexible the retrograded starch (or cured material) becomes.
 5 [00193]      Pre-existing research on thin, flexible bioplastic films showed that glycerol
   appeared to have an anti-plasticising effect at low concentrations. It has been found
   that little was enough to plasticise a film, as long as glycerol preferentially occupied
   water binding sites during film formation. It was commented that anti-plasticising
   effects were only noticed in films with low water content, and that in films with high
10 water content glycerol behaved as a typical plasticiser.
   [00194]      In some cases, potassium sorbate can exhibit plasticising effects in bio
   plastic structures. Potassium sorbate was found to act as a plasticiser in wheat gluten
   film. Gluten is a type of protein and starch is a type of polymer. Potassium sorbate
   might affect polymers in a different way. The efficacy of potassium sorbate as a
15 plasticiser in Invention was yet to be tested.
   [00195]      However, in experiments the inventor determined that Potassium Sorbate
   really did induce a plasticising effect on the material samples, which meant that less
   glycerol was needed. However, this plasticising effect does not render glycerol
   obsolete; for a reason, glycerol softens the material with less effect on its shearing
20 strength.
   [00196]      In some cases, citric acid can exhibit plasticising effects in gelatinised
   starch structures. Its effects are independent to the amount glycerol, but both play an
   important role in determining the material's physical properties.
   [00197]      The phenomenon of citric acid exhibiting plasticising qualities has been
25 documented in literature. It occurs when all the citrate-starch cross-linking sites have
   been occupied and there is excess free citric acid. Depending on the amount of citric
   acid added, this phenomenon may mean that the resulting material is strong yet
   flexible; and depending on the intended application, could prove to be a useful
   property. It has been observed in independent experiments.
30 [00198]      The experiments referred to, was when a sets of different Invention
   material test samples containing various concentrations of glycerol were analysed for
   brittleness, rigidity and plasticity. Some sample sets contained different amounts of

                                                -'U
   citric acid. The analysis was not quantitative, but rather a qualitative comparison
   between the samples; each sample was bent and twisted to the point of breakage.
   The first intent was to find a test formula that satisfied the condition of being both
   relatively rigid, but not brittle. The second intent was to gauge how the material felt in
 5 the hand as the resulting product will likely be hand held by the consumer when used.
   [00199]      The analysis occurred over a period of five days and it was observed that
   the material became progressively less brittle and more flexible. It was found that the
   middle range of citric acid resulted in a rigid material; the extreme low and high ranges
   resulted in a more flexible material. The overall trend that indicates that the more
10 glycerol added, the more flexible the material becomes. Citric acid's plasticising
   properties does not mean it can replace glycerol in Invention. Nonetheless citric acid's
   ability to plasticise starch in certain conditions needs to be kept in mind.
   [00200]      To further elaborate upon the previous subsection, the following physical
   properties have been observed for Invention material samples containing a certain
15 amount of glycerol and citric acid. Existing research on thin, flexible starch films found
   that the addition of glycerol affected tensile strength and elongation of cross-linked
   starch films. Both the control (no citric acid) and cross-linked films with less than 10%
   glycerol became brittle after curing. Increasing the concentration of glycerol to 15%
   provided the best tensile strength and increased elongation, resulting in flexible films.
20 At concentrations above 15% the plasticising effect was too pronounced and made
   the starch molecules move easily, leading to high elongation but decrease in tensile
   strength.
   [00201]      Testing
   [00202]      Experiments conducted on the material of the compostable tableware of
25 the invention mostly affirmed the observations.
   [00203]      During the experiments the ratio of glycerol was varied. For some material
   sample sets, citric acid was added. Nearly all the material samples were brittle when
   they were initially removed from the oven, the exception being the samples containing
   12.8%-15% glycerol. The samples were observed over five days and each sample
30 was tracked for weight gain and change in physical properties. All samples became
   less brittle after five days, mostly due to absorbing some moisture - reflected in a
   slightly increased weight. The samples mostly equalised in moisture content to about

                                                  -J /
   4% - 10% total moisture. It was found that a greater amount of glycerol correlated
   with greater flexibility. The amount of citric acid added to the material also influenced
   its rigidity; the pattern is more complex than glycerol, but predictable once the trend
   is understood.
 5 [00204]       Compostable tableware material samples containing 0.6% glycerol were
   generally the most rigid, but also the exceedingly brittle.
   [00205]       Further tests were not carried out with the addition of citric acid.
   [00206]       Compostable tableware material samples containing approximately 4%
   5% glycerol were brittle on the initial day. As a whole they were less brittle than the
10 samples containing less glycerol. After five days the material had become less brittle,
   dependant on the amount of citric acid in the material:
   [00207]        Material samples containing 5% citric acid (pH 2.0) were not brittle at all.
   The samples were very soft and flexible, likely owing to an excess of un-reacted citric
   acid in the material; all the citrate-starch cross-link sites were occupied. The material
15 sample was slightly leathery.
   [00208]        Material samples containing between 0.33%-0.05% citric acid (pH 2.0
   3.0) were generally the most rigid of the subset. The samples were rigid, but slightly
   springy when flexed. The samples were still slightly brittle but rather resilient; they
   only snapped when bent to an angle of approximately 90 degrees. At 0.05% citric
20 acid the material seemed the least brittle.
   [00209]        Material samples containing between 0.03% - 0.01% citric acid (pH 3.5
   4.0) were not brittle. Both samples were very soft and flexible.
   [00210]       Compostable tableware material samples containing approximately 9%
   10% glycerol were brittle on the initial day, but less so than samples containing less
25 glycerol. After five days the material was less brittle, and some samples were not
   brittle at all. The flexibility of the samples were affected by the amount of citric acid in
   the material:
   [00211]        Material samples containing between 0.33%-0.05% citric acid (pH 2.0
   3.0) were the most rigid of the subset. The samples were mostly rigid, and slightly
30 springy when flexed. They were less rigid than those in other subsets containing more

                                                  Jo
   glycerol; some of the samples were able to bend to an angle of 180 degrees and not
   snap. At 0.05% citric acid the material seemed the most rigid.
   [00212]     Material samples containing between 0.33%-0.05% citric acid (pH 2.0
   3.0) were the most rigid of the subset. The samples were mostly rigid, and slightly
 5 springy when flexed. They were less rigid than those in other subsets containing more
   glycerol; some of the samples were able to bend to an angle of 180 degrees and not
   snap. At 0.05% citric acid the material seemed the most rigid.
   [00213]     Material samples containing between 0.03% - 0.01% citric acid (pH 3.5
   4.0) were not brittle. The 0.03% sample was very soft and flexible. At 0.03% sample
10 was the most rigid of the subset.
   [00214]     Compostable tableware material samples containing 10%-12% glycerol
   were only slightly brittle on the initial day. As a whole they were less brittle than the
   samples containing less glycerol. After five days the material had become less brittle,
   dependant on the amount of citric acid in the material:
15 [00215]     Material samples containing 5% citric acid (pH 2.0) were not brittle at all.
   The samples were very soft and flexible, likely owing to an excess of un-reacted citric
   acid in the material.
   [00216]     Material samples containing between 0.33%-0.05% citric acid (pH 2.0
   3.0) were the most rigid of the subset, but only slightly, due to the amount of glycerol
20 present. The samples were not brittle at all. They were soft and flexible, yet tough to
   tear. At 0.33% citric acid the material seemed the most rigid.
   [00217]     Compostable tableware material samples containing 12%-15% glycerol
   were hardly brittle at all on the initial day. As a whole they were noticeably less brittle
   than the samples containing less glycerol. The material became very flexible after five
25 days. It is too flexible for application as Compostable tableware food vessels, but
   could have potential for other applications. The effect of citric acid was not tested.
   [00218]     The current amount of glycerol used in Invention material test formulas
   range between 0.6% - 13% by total weight, but 4% - 9% is considered to be a more
   suitable range for Invention intended for the compostable tableware application.
30 Between 4%- 9%, the resulting material exhibits a balance between adequate rigidity

                                                J17
   and minimal brittleness, depending on the amount of citric acid present in the material:
   0.33%-0.05% citric acid (pH 2.0 -3.0) is preferred.
   [00219]      Examples
   [00220]      Above is outlined the method of preparation for the material, outlines
 5 formula iterations under consideration at different development stages. The formulas
   below are examples of the compostable tableware material and are for explanation
   only - they may be subject to change.
     [00221]    Example 1
                                    PHan 2.00.6     glcrlbywih
       Corn husk fibers                     6g                      63.3g          6.23%
       Potato starch                       30g                      311.6g        31.16%
       Vinegar                       45ml / 45.27g             468.2ml / 470.2g   47.02%
       (1% Glycerol Solution)         (see below)                (see below)    (see below)
       Glycerol                      0.05ml/ 0.06g              0.48ml / 0.60g     0.06%
       Water, from municipal tap        14.95ml                    155.3ml         15.53%
10
     [00222]    Example 2
       Potassium sorbate, E202           0.1 16g                    2.00g         0.200%
       Citric Acid, E330                 0.098g                      1.69g        0.169%
       Glycerol 1ml/ml              2.302ml/2.904g             39.64ml/50.00g     5.000%
       Potato Starch powder             16.000g                    275.49g        27.549%
       Cornhusk fibres, dry              3.000g                     51.65g        5.165%
       Water, from municipal tap      35.961ml/g                  619.17ml/g      61.917%

                                                       1t'J
     [00223]    Example 3
                  The third formula iteration of the compostable tableware material ModucT
                                      PH 2.0 and 7.5% glycerol by weight
                                       Amount for test batch         Amount for a           Ratio %
       Ingredients                         at 58.079 grams            1 kilo batch         out of 100
       Potassium sorbate, E202                  0.1 17g                  2.00g              0.200%
       Citric Acid, E330                        0.094g                    1.61g             0.161%
       Glycerol 1ml/ml                     3.469ml/4.375g           59.46ml/75.00g          7.500%
       Potato Starch powder                     16.000g                 274.25g             27.425%
       Cornhusk fibres, dry                     3.000g                   51.53g             5.142%
       Water, from municipal tap              34.754ml/g              595.72ml/g            59.572%
   [00224]      Clearly these are examples of corn husks versions but are not limiting of
   the invention. It shows the range of variability but the importance of the combination
 5 to provide a synergistic effect. A compostable tableware of the invention follows the
   general approach of Figure 4 in which the process 130 includes:
   a)    Step 131 of combination of material
   b)    Step 132 of chemically treating by ingredient selection so as to effect cross
   linking with flexibility and mouldability
10 c)    Step 133 of physical treating of using the mouldable material or putty to form
   required shaping;
   d)    Step 134 of Heat treating to cure or form syneresis
   e)    Such that step 135 results in a shaped tableware with the body of the tableware
   formed     substantially from decomposable material wherein the compostable
15 tableware can be used as a tableware for supporting food.
   [00225]      Defining quantity ranges for each of the six ingredient categories + factors
   to consider:
                      (1)    Water,
                      (2)    Starch,
20                    (3)    Waste Fibres,
                      (4)    Organic Acid,

                     (5)   Plasticiser,
                     (6)   Preservatives
   [00226]      There is a preferred specific amount for each ingredient, but beyond that it
   is possible to define a narrow range of ingredient quantities to describe a "general
 5 formula" for the material invention. Of course, there are limits to the upper and lower
   ranges of each material. In the descriptions to follow in the next pages, it will be clear
   how adjusting the amount of one ingredient can affect the effect of others.
   [00227]      The percentages listed are strictly by weight, not volume (that's why it
   seems that very little cornhusk is used, but going by visual volume in the cured material
10 it's more like 50%)
   [00228]      Water, Temperature and Process
   [00229]      WATER
   [00230]      Water generally refers to added water, unless other ingredients are very
15 wet; and in that case the moisture levels would need to be taken in to account.
   Sometimes the water is added with a dissolved solute, such as citric acid.
   [00231]      The range for water at the start of the mixing process before heat exposure
   is: 50% to 70%
   [00232]      The exact amount of water depends on how large of a batch is used. For
20 example, if you're making a <1 kilogram test batch you might need less water as it
   would take less time for the starch to gelatinise, and therefore there will be less
   opportunity for water to evaporate in the interim. On the other hand it would take longer
   to mix 50 kilograms; a bigger vessel and presumably more surface area (you need
   space in the vessel to mix) leads to more evaporation.
25
   [00233]      LINK TO TEMPERATURE AND PROCESS
   [00234]      The amount of water that gets evaporated also depends on the intensity of
   the heat source used when gelatinising the starch. Preferably a temperature range for
   use during the mixing/starch gelatinisation process: at least 52.50C and not exceed
30 800C.
   [00235]      On the other hand, there is another range for the amount of water present

   in the material after it has undergone the drying/curing process. This affects the
   immediate hardness and flexibility of the material when it is removed from the oven. If
   the material is left to sit out, it will eventually take up some moisture from the immediate
   environment and become more flexible; sometimes it can even become too flexible to
 5 be suitable for use as rigid tableware. (NOTE this is mostly dependent on the amount
   of plasticiser used and not fully reliant on the level of remaining moisture though both
   are somewhat interconnected). This scenario and others (another described in the
   starch section) is taken into account in the following: The range for remaining moisture
   is after drying/curing is: 4% to 10%
10 [00236]       The temperature range for the drying and curing process is 105"C to <
   200"C. This range is broader than what has been previously stated; suitable
   temperatures do depend in part on the moulding process and apparatus used. For
   example, if the mould is open, a lower temperature such as 1050C is suitable.
   [00237]       For a two-part mould, higher temperatures such as 120-1800C would
15 facilitate quicker drying. In the case of an open mould, when the material is sufficiently
   dry (the form has hardened), the temperature could be raised up to 2000C. It is
   important that the temperature used will not cause one part of the of the moulded
   material invention to dry faster than another part, otherwise warping will occur. It is to
   do with an influx of steam trying to escape the material and causing air pockets.
20  However, this would be less of an issue if the material is moulded and cured in a 2-part
   closed mould with in-built vent holes for steam to escape.
   [00238]       Improvements can also be made by a simple change in process, described
   below:
     *    To ensure less warping: It is also possible that only half of the starch be added to
25        the mixture during the mixing / gelatinisation process.
     *    No change to ingredient ratios is required; simply an altered production process.
          It would be safer to get the mixture down to 450C to give a buffer.
     *    When the material is moulded, less water would need to be driven off as some of
          it would be used to gelatinise the starch that was added afterwards. As the water
30        leaves the mould, the void left behind would be filled by the expanding starch. For
          this initial mixing process, the rest of the starch powder is incorporated and left
          ungelatinised.

     0  To prevent the powdered starch gelatinising too early, the temperature of the
         mixture should not exceed 500C. The reason is because the gelatinisation of
         potato starch starts at a temperature as low as 52.50C. It would be safer to get the
         mixture down to 450C to give a buffer.
 5   0  When the material is moulded, less water would need to be driven off as some of
         it would be used to gelatinise the starch that was added afterwards. As the water
         leaves the mould, the void left behind would be filled by the expanding starch.
   [00239]      Starch
   [00240]      The range for starch is fairly narrow. Gelatinised starch can be classified as
10 a biopolymer, and is what holds everything together. As such its primary function is
   referred to as the binder. The key here is having the right amount of starch, and this
   amount ties in closely to the amount of water present in the mixture.
   [00241]      The following defines the upper and lower limit of water in relation to starch:
   [00242]      The water to starch ratio must be so that there is enough water to fully
15 gelatinise the starch in the mixture. The ratio can then be adjusted to account for the
   amount of water that is inevitably lost to evaporation during the initial gelatinisation
   process. In addition, there must also be enough water so that the starch mixture is
   loose enough for mixing; this allows for all the raw materials to be thoroughly
   incorporated.
20 [00243]      Beyond that there is no benefit in adding more water. There is a point where
   increasing the ratio of water to starch is a detriment. Whatever water that is added must
   eventually is taken out via evaporation; the more water there is, the longer it takes to
   evaporate and the more energy it takes.
   [00244]      Aside from matters of time, energy and cost, there are other matters to
25 consider. Excess water negatively affects the strength of the material. To elaborate:
   During the initial starch gelatinisation process, starch granules absorb water and
   increase in size. The more water that is added during the initial starch gelatinisation
   process, the more the starch molecules increase in size. When the shaped gelatinised
   starch-putty is heated during the processes of drying and curing, the gelatinised starch
30 molecules undergo syneresis whereby expels water and hardens. When water is
   expelled from the starch-putty, it shrinks. The more water initially added, the greater
   the potential for shrinkage. The more potential there is for shrinkage, the greater the

   chance that the material may warp or crack.
   [00245]      It has been explained that the upper limit of starch added to the mixture
   depends on the amount of water present. The other factor to consider is the ratio of
   starch to waste fibre.
 5 [00246]     There only needs to be enough gelatinized starch in the mixture to hold all
   the fibres in place. It is not necessary to add more starch to the mixture. Adding more
   is not detrimental to the structural integrity of the material (assuming the correct water
   ratio), so why is more starch not necessary? The answer lies in the intention of this
   material: to hero the use of waste from primary processing. It's about giving waste
10 products such as cornhusk, rice husks, etc a useful purpose. For cornhusks and rice
   husks specifically, it is not possible produce a vessel using those waste products alone
   that offers the same functionality as this present Invention.
   [00247]     The range for starch is 25% to 30%. This range is slightly broader than what
   was specified before, but only by two percent both ways.
15 [00248]     Starch can also be produced as a bi-product from primary processing; the
   washing of cut potatoes for example. However starch is much more expensive than
   natural waste fibres, therefore from an economic perspective it makes sense to only
   use as much as is necessary to achieve the desired function.
   [00249]     The use of potato starch is not merely a choice but a preferred approach
20 that gives an unexpected improved effect. Potato starch produces a stronger material,
   which is beneficial to the environment as it is less resource intensive and can be
   obtained as a byproduct. Wheat starch produces similar results but since it is a wheat
   product, it can be hard to guarantee that is free from gluten and this can be of concern
   for people who have celiac disease because only a tiny amount of cross-contact can
25 result in a flare-up. Conversely, sensitivity to potato products is very rare. Tapioca
   starch is also a possible second contender function wise, but cost wise it is not as
   suitable. Corn starch is very much out of the question; it may be common and
   inexpensive, but it yields a comparatively more brittle material.
   [00250]      Potato starch has three substantial benefits including being:
30   0   environment wise,
     *   health and safety wise, and

      *    most importantly product performance.
      *    Natural waste fibres from primary processing
   [00251]       Examples include, but are not limited to: corn husk, corn silk, rice husk and
   sugarcane pulp.
 5 [00252]       The upper limit of waste fibres used is bound by the amount of start present
   in the mixture. The point of saturation is where the gelatinised starch cannot fully
   envelope and hold all the fibres together. If the point of saturation is exceeded, then
   the material will be brittle and break apart easily.
   [00253]       The upper limit of waste fibres is 10%, and the lower limit of waste fibres is
10 2%, referring to percentage by weight. (The usage in the current preferred embodiment
   is between 5-6%) This percentage by weight is for fibres that are dry. The meaning of
   "dry" in this case does not mean the complete absence of moisture; it means that the
   cornhusk is not obviously damp. If using wet fibres, the percentage of moisture in the
   fibres would be accounted for as water content.
15 [00254]       The lower limit of waste fibres is guided by its function as a strengthening
   agent. Fibres are able to increase the shearing strength of the material because they
   branch out and become entangled with the gelatinised starch.
   [00255]       In the examples there is a Length x Width ratio of 1:4 and 1:10, with the
   current ratio used being 1:10. The fibres would probably best remain in a scale between
20  1:4 and 1:30, with the preference for a ratio within the middle ranges.
   [00256]       The preference for cornhusk is not merely choice; cornhusk has particular
   advantages. When           cornhusk is observed under magnification, its uniquely rough
   texture becomes apparent; there are little hairs on the surface of cornhusk, as well as
   ridges and peaks. This extra surface area works in favour of a stronger material as
25 there is more for gelatinised starch to cling to. Therefore cornhusk has a definite
   advantage over other waste fibres.
   [00257]       The effectiveness of the waste fibres as a strengthening agent is also
   determined by the length-to-width ratio of the fibres. The fibres need to be longer than
   they are wide. In essence, a longer fibre promotes a stronger material as better
30 ensnares to the gelatinised starch. If the fibres are too short or too small in scale, then
   it will be ineffective as a strengthening agent; this marks the lower size limit of the fibres.

   [00258]       There is an upper size limit to the fibres. It the fibres are too large in scale
   (no matter what the ratio), the gelatinised starch won't be able to properly envelope it
   and therefore will be unable to hold on to it. If the gelatinised starch cannot hold the
   fibres securely, the resulting material will be unsatisfactory in quality and unfit for use;
 5 the material will fall apart, and the surface will be rough where the fibres stick out.
   [00259]     An advantage is that the material invention product biodegrades more
   readily compared to other products in the same market category. A bigger and longer
   fibre strengthens the material better than a smaller and shorter one. Therefore, there
   is a lower size limit where fibre ceases to be effective.
10 [00260]     The size ratio of the waste fibres is between 1:5 and 1:30.
   [00261]     The following specifies the minimum and maximum length of the fibres. The
   corresponding width is dependent on the specified ratio. The maximum length is 15
   mm, and the minimum length is 5mm. This size guide is only applicable when the
   material is used to make food vessels. This size guide ensures that the overall scale of
15 fibres is suitable for the scale of the end product.
   [00262]     Organic Acids, specifically citric acid
   [00263]      Primarily this is acetic acid and citric acid. Citric acid is preferred because it
   is able to work synergistically with both starch and the preservative potassium sorbate.
20 It can be said that this synergy produced an un-expected result.
   [00264]     Acetic acid has its merits, but far fewer benefits. The advantage acetic acid
   has over citric acid is that it is effective in inhibiting mould. It is also more effective
   against a wider range of microorganisms. However, the downside is that acetic acid
   has a pungent smell which citric acid lacks, and acetic acid may impart an objectionable
25 taste.
   [00265]      It is an idea to use both acetic acid and citric acid to fight microorganisms in
   Invention, but in reality this approach does not work favourably for the material as a
   whole. It must be considered that acid plays a number of roles in Invention, and a
   delicate balance must be achieved otherwise the material will fail. To explain further: If
30 both acetic acid and citric acid is to be used together to fight microorganisms, there
   must be an effective amount of both acids present in the material. The conundrum is
   that when there is enough of both acids to effectively fight microorganisms, there arises

                                                  '-t /
   a potential issue of the gelatinised starch becoming overly degraded via excessive acid
   hydrolysis. The result of excessive acid hydrolysis on gelatinised starch is one big,
   useless, sticky mess. Therefore, it is not recommended to use both acids at once.
 5 [00266]      Synergy between citric acid and starch:
   [00267]      Citric acid lowers the pH level to enable acid hydrolysis. This is true of acetic
   acid and all other acids. The minimum acidity required for this is pH 4
   [00268]      To a certain extent, the citrate component of citric acid is able to form starch
   citrate bonds. If there are enough starch-citrate bonds then the material becomes more
10 rigid. However, an increased amount of starch-citrate bonds does not necessarily result
   in a stronger material; too many bonds may result in an overly stiff and brittle material
   (especially if there is insufficient plasticiser present).
   [00269]      On the contrary it is a different situation if there is a great excess of citrate.
   If all the available starch binding sites have bonded with citrate and there is excess
15 citrate in the mixture, this excess citrate can roam freely and can act as a plasticiser.
   This plasticising effect has been observed by the inventor in material samples made
   with a large amount of citric acid, whereby the material samples were comparatively
   more flexible than those made will less citric acid.
   [00270]      Citric acid is not used in Invention specifically as a plasticiser, but its
20 potential plasticising effects must be considered. The currently preferred embodiment
   of Invention utilises citric acid, and the amount of glycerol plasticiser used has been
   tailored accordingly. However if for any reason acetic acid is used instead of citric acid,
   it is necessary to increase the amount of glycerol slightly.
25 [00271]      Synergy between citric acid and the preservative potassium sorbate:
   [00272]      Studies have shown that citric acid has bacteriostatic properties. Citric acid
   also enhances the effectiveness of the preservative potassium sorbate by lowering pH.
   The following table shows the effect of pH on potassium sorbate.
   [00273]      The effect of different PH levels on the activity levels of sorbic
   acid/potassium sorbate

                                                  ,to
   [00274]
                    PH 3                                         98%
                    PH 4                                         85%
                    PH 5                                         37%
                    PH 6                                         5.5%
                    PH 7                                          0%
   [00275]       Plasticiser, specifically Glycerol (also known as glycerine)
   [00276]      Glycerol is used as the plasticising agent. The range for the plasticiser
   glycerol is between 0.6% and 9%.
 5 [00277]       For the current preferred embodiment, an amount of approximately 5% of
   glycerol is used. Beyond 9% glycerol the resulting material samples are not rigid
   enough to create functional vessels (for food application use); the result is a flexible
   leathery material that would be useful other applications - after all the material should
   not be limited to food contact use. The material with 0.6% added glycerol has the
10 potential to be too brittle if the material is very thin. However, when made into a bowl
   at an appropriate thickness of >1 mm, it is only a concern if the end user purposely sets
   out to snap it. For normal, use it is not a concern.
   [00278]       Preservatives, specifically Potassium Sorbate
15 [00279]      The reasons for choosing Potassium Sorbate in a nut shell is that Potassium
   Sorbate has an excellent safety record as a preservative used in food. The logic is that
   if it is safe to ingest in food, then what little amount that's used in the Compostable
   tableware poses a negligible risk. Apart from safety, the other benefit of using
   Potassium Sorbate is that its effect as a bacteriostatic agent is enhanced by the
20 presence of citric acid - a component present in the Compostable tableware material.
   [00280]      The form of potassium sorbate used is the pure powdered or granulated
   form. The minimum amount of potassium sorbate added is based on how much is
   needed to be effective. The upper limit is governed by Good Manufacturing Practice.
   [See regulation (EC) No. 2023/2006]. Set by the EU, GMP governs the suitability of

   raw materials to be used, and specifies criteria that ensure the manufacturing process
   used result in a product that is safe and suitable for food contact. In terms of additives
   with GMP status, EU regulations mandate that no more be used than required to fulfil
   the technical purpose in the material. In terms of antimicrobials, the EU regulations
 5 require that the antimicrobial substance used in a food contact material not show any
   effect on the food itself.
   [00281]      According to one specific study an effective combination was 0.15% citric
   acid and 0.1% potassium sorbate, which inhibited growth of approximately 60% of
   bacterial isolates, including the two additional spiked bacteria. Taking all that into
10 account, the range for potassium sorbate is preferably: 0.15% - 0.6%,
   [00282]      Not a lot of potassium sorbate is needed to be effective in the material. The
   current amount of potassium sorbate used in the preferred embodiment is 0.2%. The
   specified limit of 0.6% by weight is really not much, but it's possibly a little more than
   what is needed. However, there is a specific reason for specifying an amount that is a
15 little more than needed in the end product. This extra amount accounts for the fact that
   potassium sorbate can sublimate in heat. Therefore, it is very possible that a portion of
   what was added will disappear during processing; exactly how much is dependent on
   the intensity and time of heat exposure. It is important to note that despite specifying
   more potassium sorbate to be added initially, the end amount of potassium sorbate that
20 remains in the material is only how much is required to do the job well. Therefore, the
   amount of added potassium sorbate remains complainant to the limit set by GMP
   (Good Manufacturing Practice).
   [00283]      Potassium sorbate has a distinct smell and taste but at the amounts added,
   the effect is minimal. At the amounts specified in the preferred embodiment of
25 Invention, it is very unlikely that potassium sorbate will impart taste or smell taint to
   food.
   [00284]      The following charts demonstrate the taste and olfactory effects of adding
   different amounts of potassium sorbate, citric acid, and glycerol. Note that the amount
   of potato starch in each sample remains the same. What is written in the charts is purely
30 subjective, and in no way substitutes official tests that would be made by any relevant
   governing authority (such as the USA FDA).

                                   _7J
                                       (Control) Like lemons and other distinctly sour
Citric Acid (C.A.)    100%             citrus fruits. Fresh, pleasant and very mild.
crystalline salt                      Unobtrusive.
Potassium sorbate                      (Control) A mild smell that is mostly sweet.
(P. S.) in dry powder 100%            Not very acrid or sour at all compared to its
form, a % teaspoon                     sorbic acid counterpart.
                                       (Control) Slightly sweet smell, very mild and
Glycerol (GLY.)       100%            unobtrusive.
                                       (Control) Smells like freshly cut potatoes.
Potato starch         100%            Earthy. Very mild and unobtrusive.
                                       (Control) Smells "green" and somewhat grassy
Cornhusk              100%            with undertones of corn. A rather pleasant
                                       earthy smell that is unobtrusive.
                      P.S.: 0.2%      All the Li set samples contained the same
Sample L1.1           C.A.: 0.169%     amount of potassium sorbate. As such, no
                      GLY: 5.0%        discernible difference between the three
                      P.S.: 0.2%       samples could be detected when conducting the
Sample L2.1           C.A.: 0.161%     olfactory (smell) test. The smell of potassium
                      SamA: 0.1%       sorbate dominates, but the least strong of the
                      GLY: 7.5%       three experiment L sample sets.
                                       Overall the smell is not entirely unpleasant or
                                       overpowering, but the scent of potassium
                      P.S.: 0.2%       sorbate definitely dominates. The smell is not
Sample L3.1           C.A.: 0.155%     obvious unless the samples are sniffed in close
                      GLY: 10.0%      range of <2cm. The smell of the other
                                       ingredients could not readily be defined, but
                                      perhaps a slight smell of the cornhusk could be
                                       detected.
                      P.S.: 0.6 %     All the L2 set samples contained the same
Sample L1.2           C.A.: 0.169%     amount of potassium sorbate. As such, no
                      GLY: 5.0%        discernible difference between the three
                      P.S.: 0.6%       samples could be detected when conducting the
                       e '2 '          olfactory (smell) test. The smell of potassium
Sample L2.2           C.A.: 0.161%     sorbate dominates; more so than sample set Li,
                      GLY: 7%         but less so than sample set L3.
                      P.S.: 0.6%       Overall the smell is not entirely unpleasant or
Sample L3.2           C.A.: 0.155%     overpowering, but the scent of potassium
                      GLY: 10.0%       sorbate definitely dominates. The smell is not
                                       obvious unless the samples are sniffed in close
                                      range of <5cm, but of course the less smell the

                                  J 1
                                     better. The smell of the other ingredients could
                                     not readily be defined.
                 P.S.: 1.0%          All the L3 set samples contained the same
Sample L1.3      C.A.: 0.167%         amount of potassium sorbate. As such, no
                 GLY:5.0%             discernible difference between the three
                 [00286] P.S.:        samples could be detected when conducting the
                      1.0%            olfactory (smell) test. The smell of potassium
[00285]   Sample [00287]    C.A.:     sorbate dominates; more so than both sample
    L2.3              0.160%          sets Ll and L3.
                 [00288]    GLY:
                      7.5%            Overall the smell is not entirely unpleasant or
                                      overpowering, but the scent of potassium
                                      sorbate definitely is the strongest of the three
                 [00290] P.S.:        sample sets. The smell is not too obvious unless
                      1.0%           the samples are sniffed in close range of <5cm,
[00289]   Sample [00291]    C.A.:    but of course the less smell the better. The
    L3.3              0.154%          smell of the other ingredients could not readily
                 [00292]    GLY:     be defined as the potassium sorbate smell
                      10.0%           dominates.

                                        -/
Citric Acid (C.A.)                    (Control) Extreme sourness that tasted salty. After
crystalline salt form, a 100%         rinsing mouth out, there was sweetness and then a
 /4 teaspoon                          strong metallic aftertaste.
                                      (Control) A very mild taste that is more bitter than
                                      sour. The aftertaste is sweet. Over the taste is not
Potassium sorbate                     entirely unpleasant given the amount of P.S.
(P.S.) in dry powder     100%         directly placed in the mouth. In a conventional
          d
(..m 'epowder            100%setting          only a small fraction of the amount would
form, a %4  teaspoon                  be put in the mouth when mixed with other
                                      ingredients.
                                      (Control) A bit like watered down honey. Slightly
Glycerol (GLY.) a        100%         viscous in the mouth and tastes mildly sweet, but
teaspoon                              not enough to be considered a sweetener.
                                      (Control) Tastes like potato, but with a sweet
Potato starch, a                      undertone. This is not surprising since starch is a
               '         100%         type of carbohydrate polymer which breaks down
teaspoon                              into sugar.
                                      (Control) Tastes a bit "green" and grassy with the
                                      scent of corn, but not at all sweet. Could be
Comhusk, a teaspoon      100%         described as slightly herbaceous but the taste is
                                      mild.
                         P.S.: 0.2%   All the Li set samples contained the same amount
Sample L1. 1             C.A.: 0.169% of potassium sorbate, cornhusk and potato starch,
                         GLY: 5.0%    but differing amounts of C.A and GLY. No
                         P.S.: 0.2%
                         P.S.: 0. %   difference  was tasted between the three samples.
                                      Nothing could   be tasted until the Li samples were
Sample L2.1              C.A.: 0.161% chewed. The taste was mostly sweet, but this
                         GLY: 7.5%    sweetness was very mild. The taste potassium
                                      sorbate is the most obvious, but there was o hint of
                                      sourness or bitterness. In the after taste there was a
                         P.S.: 0.2%   hint of grassiness from the cornhusk. It is very
Sample L3.1              C.A.: 0.155% unlikely that any noticeable taste would transfer to
                         GLY: 10.0%   food-stuffs in contact with ModucTM material
                                      made according to Li specifications, even if the
                                      food is high in water or oil content.
                         P.S.: 0.6 %  All the L2 set samples contained the same amount
Sample L1.2              C.A.: 0.169% of potassium sorbate, cornhusk and potato starch,
                         GLY: 5.0%    but differing amounts of C.A and GLY. No
                         P.S.: 0.6%   difference was tasted between the three samples,
Sample L2.2              C.A.: 0.161% but overall they were slightly stronger tasting than
                         GLY: 7.5%    the Li samples. Nonetheless nothing could be

                                               tasted until the L2 samples were chewed. The taste
                                               was mostly sweet, but this sweetness was very
                                               mild. The taste potassium sorbate is the most
                                               obvious, but there was o hint of sourness or
                               P.S.: 0.6%      bitterness. In the after taste there was a hint of
      Sample L3.2              C.A.: 0.155%    grassiness from the cornhusk. It is very unlikely
                               GLY: 10.0%      that any noticeable taste would transfer to food
                                               stuffs in contact with ModucTM material made
                                               according to L2 specifications, even if the food is
                                               high in water or oil content.
                               P.S.: 1.0%      All the L3 set samples contained the same amount
      Sample L1.3              C.A.: 0.167%    of potassium sorbate, cornhusk and potato starch,
                               GLY:5.0%        but differing amounts of C.A and GLY. No
                                               difference was tasted between the three samples,
      Sampple L2.3             C.A.: 1.160%    but overall they were slightly stronger tasting than
                 .             GLY: 7.5%       the Li and L2 samples. Nonetheless nothing could
                                        -Y 7be    tasted until the L3 samples were chewed. The
                                               taste was mostly sweet, but this sweetness was
                                               very mild. The taste potassium sorbate is the most
                                               obvious, but there was o hint of sourness or
                               P.S.: 1.0%      bitterness. In the after taste there was a hint of
      Sample L3.3              C.A.: 0.154%    grassiness from the comhusk. It is very unlikely
                               GLY: 10.0%      that any noticeable taste would transfer to food
                                               stuffs in contact with ModucTM material made
                                               according to L3 specifications, even if the food is
                                               high in water or oil content.
     [00284]
     [00285]    Interpretation
   [00286]      Embodiments:
 5 [00287]      Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an
   embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in
   connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
   invention.      Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an
   embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
10 referring to the same embodiment, but may. Furthermore, the particular features,
   structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be
   apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure, in one or more
   embodiments.
   [00288]     Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of example
15 embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes

   grouped together in a single embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the
   purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more
   of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure, however, is not to be
   interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features
 5 than are expressly recited in each claim.        Rather, as the following claims reflect,
   inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed
   embodiment.        Thus, the claims following the Detailed Description of Specific
   Embodiments are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description of
   Specific Embodiments, with each claim standing on its own as a separate
10 embodiment of this invention.
   [00289]      Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but
   not other features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of
   different embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form
15 different embodiments, as would be understood by those in the art. For example, in
   the following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any
   combination.
   Different Instances of Objects
20 [00290]      As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives
   "first", "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that
   different instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply
   that the objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally,
   spatially, in ranking, or in any other manner.
25
   Specific Details
   [00291]      In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth.
   However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without
   these specific details.      In other instances, well-known methods, structures and
30 techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding
   of this description.

   Terminology
   [00292]     In describing the preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in the
   drawings, specific terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the
 5 invention is not intended to be limited to the specific terms so selected, and it is to be
   understood that each specific term includes all technical equivalents which operate
   in a similar manner to accomplish a similar technical purpose.           Terms such as
   "forward", "rearward", "radially", "peripherally", "upwardly", "downwardly", and the like
   are used as words of convenience to provide reference points and are not to be
10 construed as limiting terms.
   Comprising and Including
   [00293]     In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
15 implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not
   to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   invention.
20 [00294]     Any one of the terms: including or which includes or that includes as used
   herein is also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features
   that follow the term, but not excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with
   and means comprising.
25 Scope of Invention
   [00295]     Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred
   embodiments of the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and
   further modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the
   invention, and it is intended to claim all such changes and modifications as fall within
30 the scope of the invention.      For example, any formulas given above are merely
   representative of procedures that may be used.          Functionality may be added or
   deleted from the block diagrams and operations may be interchanged among
   functional blocks. Steps may be added or deleted to methods described within the
   scope of the present invention.

                                           -) V
  [00296]    Although the invention has been described with reference to specific
  examples, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be
  embodied in many other forms.
5
  [00297]    Industrial Applicability
  [00298]    It is apparent from the above, that the arrangements described are
  applicable to the compostable tableware that can be used for one use situations such
  as take away food industries.

                                          57
Claims
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A compostable tableware comprising
           a. a shaped tableware;
           b. the body of the tableware formed substantially from decomposable
              material wherein the decomposable material is a natural fibre selected
              from:
                   i. Rice husks;
                  ii. Corn Husks.
           c. the decomposable material is held together by processing with a
              decomposable binder
     wherein the compostable tableware can be used as a tableware for supporting
     food.
        wherein the compostable tableware is formed of a combination of:
           d. the decomposable binder in the form of a gelatinised starch
           e. A form of organic acid
          f. A form of plasticizer
           g. Water
           h. Preservatives may be included.
   2. A compostable tableware according to claim I wherein the gelatinised starch is
       selected from one or more of the high amylose starches of:
           a. potato starch,
           b. wheat starch
           c. tapioca starch.
       wherein the organic acid is selected from one or more of:
           d. Citric acid
           e. vinegar

                                        58
   wherein the plasticizer is selected from one or more of:
       f. Glycerol,
       g. citric acid and
       h. potassium sorbate
3. A compostable tableware according to any one of claims I wherein the
   tableware is one of:
       a. A shaped handheld open top container
       b. A shaped handheld open top container with closable lid
  wherein the compostable tableware can be used as a single use food container.
4. A method of forming of compostable tableware including the steps of:
       a. A pre-procedure of preparation of waste material being a natural fibre
          selected from:
                i. Rice husks;
               ii. Corn Husks.
       b. A procedure of selection of the combination of ingredients for the
          compostable tableware including a major portion having fibre length
          substantially in the range of 5 to 15 millimetres to maintain strength
       c. A procedure of creating mouldable material
       d. A procedure of forming mouldable compostable tableware from
          mouldable material
  wherein compostable tableware provides a stable base and allows variability of
  construction by mouldability
   including the step of the selection of the material for the compostable tableware
   to be formed from a combination of:
       e. At least one type of waste material in the form of a natural fibre
       f. A binder in the form of gelatinised starch
       g. A form of organic acid

                                        59
       h. A form of plasticizer
       i.  Water
       j.  Preservatives may be included
5. A method of forming of compostable tableware according to claim 4 including
   the step of the selection of the gelatinised starch is selected from one or more
   of the high amylose starches of:
       a. potato starch,
       b. wheat starch
       c. tapioca starch.
   including the step of the selection of the organic acid is selected from one or
   more of:
       d. Citric acid
       e. vinegar
   including the step of the selection of the plasticizer is selected from one or more
   of:
       f. Glycerol,
       g. citric acid and
       h. potassium sorbate
   including the step of the Pre-procedure of preparation of waste material
   including the steps of:
   including the step of the Pre-procedure of preparation of waste material
   including the steps of:
       a. Cornhusks are removed from the corncob, or otherwise obtained as a
           bi-product of other processes requiring corn.
       b. The cornhusks are picked and cleaned to remove any dirt and insects.
       c. The cornhusks may either be fresh or dried.
       d. The cornhusks are cut into 7-10mm long strips against the grain.

                                      60
    e. The cornhusk strips are boiled in vat of hot water for approx. 30 mins
       until softened and killing any bacteria present.
    f. Preferably a preservative may be added at this stage so it has a chance
       to soak into the husks.
    g. The cornhusks are processed with water, sheared until the strips are
       separated into fibres.
    h. processed cornhusks undergoes a process to remove water until about
       70% water in weight remains.
    i. The pulp is pressed into blocks of equal weight and frozen.
    j. If the processed cornhusks will be stored indefinitely, the fresh husks are
       dehydrated after cleaning.
including the step of pre-processing and combining the ingredients to produce
compostable tableware including the steps of:
    k. Pre-prepared cornhusk fibres are measured out.
    1. The cornhusk is mixed thoroughly with the remaining ingredients.
    m. Preferably including a form of preservative.
    n. The mixture is heated over a very low heat with continuous agitation until
       the starch is fully gelatinised.
  including the step of the procedure of forming mouldable compostable
tableware from mouldable material, including processing the ingredients to
produce shaped compostable tableware comprising the steps of:
    o. The compostable tableware putty is manipulated into the required form
       either by hand or via mechanical means;
    p. Using a mould such as a form of compression moulding;
    q. The formed compostable tableware putty becomes compostable
       tableware;
    r. baking in an oven at < about 1050C to 1200C until 90% - 95% dry;
    s. Packaging and storing in a cool, dry place until it is required;
    wherein at the end of its life, compostable tableware can be fully composted.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        155
FIGURE 1                              1 / 16

                            2 / 16
<removed-date>
              110   PROVIDE NATURAL
                         FIBRE
                                       111
<removed-apn>
                    PREPARATION OF
                     NATURAL FIBRE
                                      112
                    COMBINATION OF
                     INGREDIENTS TO
                    FORM MATERIAL
                                      113
                      SHAPING OF
                       MATERIAL
                                      114
                      FINALISING
                    CONSTRUCTION
                                      115
                          FIGURE 2

                               3 / 16
<removed-date>
                         QUESTION
              120     a natural fibre
                                         121
<removed-apn>
                     A binder in the
                         form of
                    gelatinised starch   122
                    A form of organic
                          acid
                                         123
                       A form of
                       plasticizer
                                         124
                         Water
                                         125
                        FIGURE 3

                             4 / 16
<removed-date>
                       QUESTION
                    COMBINATION OF
              130
                       MATERIAL
                                      131
<removed-apn>
                     CHEMICALLY-
                     TREATING BY
                     INGREDIENT       132
                      SELECTION
                     PHYSICALLY -
                     TREATING BY
                      MOULDING        133
                    HEAT-TREATING
                     TO CURE AND
                    FORM SYNERESIS    134
                       USABLE
                      MATERIAL
                                      135
                       FIGURE 4

                           5 / 16
<removed-date>   112
                                           141
<removed-apn>                                 144
                                     143
                    142
                                            145
                          FIGURE 5

                                      6 / 16
              113
<removed-date>
                                146
                                                      148
<removed-apn>
                                               147
                114
                                               150
                          151
                                                      149
                                152
                                                      155
                                                153
                    115
                                  FIGURE 6

                     7 / 16
<removed-date>
                    251                    253
                     261         252
<removed-apn>
                                                 263
                                 262
                    FIGURE 7
              254                    264
                                           254
                                                       266
                               265
                    FIGURE 8

                                 8 / 16
<removed-date>
              271
                                                   272
<removed-apn>
                                             276
                                                    254
                                                   277
                    274
                          275
                                           273
                                                   255
                      256
                                FIGURE 9

                       9 / 16
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                 281
              255
               255
                     FIGURE 10

                     10 / 16
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              301
                                 302
              304                 303
              305
                                306
              308               307
                    FIGURE 11

                     11 / 16
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                309
              257
              257
                                  310
                    FIGURE 12

                                               12 / 16
<removed-date>
                            Ratio of
                            length to
                            width of each   Corn Husk within size dimension
<removed-apn>
                            fibre           and ratio
              1:5
              1:30
                     6 to
                                        5                15   Length of fibre mm
                                             FIGURE 13

                                                 13 / 16
<removed-date>
                        Water
                                        Effective Starch
<removed-apn>
                         Starch too low
              BS2
                                                                Water too high
              BS1
              0
                    0              s1                      s2        Amount of Starch
                                              FIGURE 14

                                                      14 / 16
<removed-date>
                        Binder
                        strength
<removed-apn>
                                   Starch too low                    Starch too high
              BS2
              BS1
              0
                    0                  s1                       s2       Amount of
                                                                         Effective Starch
                                                    FIGURE 15

                                        15 / 16
<removed-date>
                              Ratio of Acid to Starch
                     Acid
                            Acid amount too
<removed-apn>
                            low  acid
                            hydrolysis of starch
                            not active
                                                           Acid amount
                                                           too high  acid
                                                           hydrolysis of
                                                           starch too
              pH 4                                         active
              pH 2
                            X1%                    X2%   Starch
                                     FIGURE 16

                                               16 / 16
<removed-date>
                                   Ratio of Citric Acid to Glycerol
                     Citric Acid                                If the amount of Citric
<removed-apn>
                                                                Acid is too high and the
                                                                amount of starch is too
                                                                low, a plasticising effect
                                                                results  so the
                                                                plasticiser is too active
              pH 2
              pH 4
                                                                         Citric Acid too low
                                                                          cross linking of
                                                                         starch not active
                                   12%                   15%          Glycerol
                                           FIGURE 17

