                                                ABSTRACT
A barrier operator feature enhancement device is designed to provide one or more features found in
modern barrier operator devices and to incorporate those features into a previously installed barrier
operator system. To facilitate ease of use, the barrier operator feature enhancement device can
communicate with a large variety of barrier operators. Such communication may be wireless or
wired, depending on the communication protocol implemented by a particular previously installed
barrier operator. To facilitate the ease of installation, the device is designed to configure itself to
operate with the communication protocol of the previously installed barrier operator. Once
configured to be able to communicate with the previously installed barrier operator, the feature
enhancement device works with the barrier operator to provide one or more additional features to
enhance the capabilities of the previously installed barrier operator.
FIG. 4

                                    416
    -J                                    c~<         ~
         __j                                   cc I
         U         LUJ   -J-                            z1
                   CC
                 0~L                                    0=
         C=    LJ   LL    -jCD
                    :E                    U- 0           z  ~
                       0                     C                     LU
             0 Ll                        0 -                        IU
    cc =Z                                               I-M     _.
LLU zZLCc<
                                        u~oz
                         LU-J           Z5    L    J    L
   Ul-
    00             tn                         z ui      <j
    zC
     -~                                 L0              z
                   LL    z              0<0
                         0L                 U                      <
         --        Lu                    Z Ln
    D-                   zz                                   I,
              LL                        I]'I             i
        Cc               0                                     0
                                             01J
                  III         0i             ujl         n
                                    LW
                              0>       Ku            10
                                        wII           I
                                   0> <i 10
                               a:       -1
                                NL
                                 0

                      BARRIER OPERATOR FEATURE ENHANCEMENT
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
  [00011         This invention relates generally to barrier operators and more specifically to
  adding features to pre-installed barrier operators.
                                           BACKGROUND
  [0002]         Barrier operators of various kinds have been known and used for many years.
 Examples of such barrier operators include gate operators, rolling shutter operators, garage
 door operators, and the like. In one example, garage door operators are mounted within a
 garage to automate the process of opening and closing a garage door. Such garage door
 operators are designed to last for many years. In its simplest form, a garage door operator
 includes a motor connected to move a barrier between an open position and a closed position
 and control circuitry configured to control the motor. Such garage door operators can last
 and reliably operate a garage door for many years with basic maintenance.
 [0003]         More recently, however, barrier operators have begun evolving to include
 additional features beyond the simple task of opening and closing the barrier. Such new
 features include various safety features, lighting options, network communication options
including remote operation of the barrier operator, and the like. To have access to such
features, however, typically a completely new barrier operator with a new motor and
connection equipment must be purchased and installed for a user to have access to the new
features. This contradicts the reality where barrier operators are generally designed to
perform their core function of opening and closing a barrier for many years.
                                            SUMMARY
[0004]          Generally speaking, and pursuant to these various embodiments, a barrier
operator feature enhancement device is designed to provide one or more features found in
modem barrier operator devices and to incorporate those features into a previously installed
barrier operator system. To facilitate ease of use, the barrier operator feature enhancement
device is designed to be able to communicate with a large variety of older model barrier
                                                - 1-

  operator systems. Such communication may be wireless or wired, depending on the
  communication protocol implemented by a particular previously installed barrier operator. To
  facilitate the ease of installation of the feature enhancement device, the device is designed to,
  in one approach, step through a variety of communication protocols and to receive feedback
 information from either the barrier operator or another device to indicate that the previously
 installed barrier operator performed an action in response to receipt of a communication from
 the feature enhancement device. Based on that feedback, the feature enhancement device
 configures itself to operate going forward with the communication protocol that elicited the
 response from the previously installed barrier operator.
 [00051           Once configured to be able to communicate with the previously installed barrier
 operator, the feature enhancement device works with the barrier operator to provide one or
 more additional features to enhance the capabilities of the previously installed barrier operator.
  Examples include adding safety features such as the use of obstacle detectors, adding remote
 communication and network based communication features, enabling timer based open and
 close features, enabling vehicle and person detection features, and the like. These and other
benefits may become clearer upon making a thorough review and study of the following
detailed description.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [00061           The above needs are at least partially met through provision of the barrier
operator feature enhancement described in the following detailed description, particularly,
when studied in conjunction with the drawings wherein:
[00071           FIG. I comprises a perspective view of an example environment in which a
barrier operator feature enhancement device may be applied as configured in accordance with
various embodiments of the invention;
[00081           FIG. 2 comprises a block diagram of an example barrier operator feature
enhancement device as configured in accordance with various embodiments of the invention;
[0009]           FIG. 3 comprises a schematic diagram of a building having various devices that
may communicate with a barrier operator feature enhancement device as configured in
accordance with various embodiments of the invention;
                                                   -2-

  [0010]        FIG. 4 comprises a flow diagram of an example method of operation for a
 barrier operator feature enhancement device as configured in accordance with various
 embodiments of the invention;
 [0011]        FIG. 5 comprises a perspective view of an example environment in which a
 barrier operator feature enhancement device may be applied as configured in accordance with
 various embodiments of the invention; and
 [0012]        FIG. 6 comprises a perspective view of an example environment in which a
barrier operator feature enhancement device may be applied as configured in accordance with
 various embodiments of the invention.
 [0013]        Skilled artisans will appreciate the elements and the figures are illustrated for
simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example, the
dimensions and/or relative positioning of some of the elements in the figures may be
exaggerated relative to other elements to help improve understanding of various embodiments.
  Also, common but well understood elements that are useful or necessary in a commercially
feasible embodiment are often not depicted to facilitate a less obstructive view of these various
embodiments. It will further be appreciated that certain actions and/or steps may be described
or depicted in a particular order of occurrence while those skilled in the art will understand
that such specificity with respect to sequence is not actually required. It will also be
understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary technical meaning as
is accorded to such terms and expressions and a person skilled in the technical field as set forth
above, except where different specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0014]         Referring now to the drawings and, in particular, to FIG. 1, an example
environment in which a barrier operator feature enhancement device may operate will now be
presented. A previously installed barrier operator 100 is configured to move a barrier 105
between open and closed positions. In the illustrated example, the barrier operator is a garage
door opener configured to open and close a garage door for a typical garage although the
subject matter described herein can be applied to a variety of other barrier operator settings.
The barrier operator 100 can be activated to open or close the barrier 105 using a remote
                                               -3-

  control device 110 or a wired wall control 115. The remote control device 110 communicates
  directly with the barrier operator 100 using a radio frequency based, wireless communication
  that is received and analyzed by the barrier operator 100 to determine what action it should
 take in response to receipt of the signal from the remote control device 110. Similarly, the
 wall control device 115 includes buttons that when pressed effect sending a signal over the
 wire to the barrier operator 100 to effect the opening or closing of the barrier 105 or
 performance of another action. A barrier operator feature enhancement device 120 can be
 introduced into this space to add additional features to the barrier operator system present
 within this particular garage.
  [0015]          With reference to FIG. 2, an example barrier operator feature enhancement
 device 120 will be described. This apparatus includes a barrier operator communication
 module 125 that is configured to be able to communicate with a plurality of barrier operator
 types by sending communication signals by wireless or wired communication protocols. To
 facilitate this ability, the barrier operator communication module 125 includes an antenna 130
 that may be built-in or external to the device 120. The communication module 125 may also
 include a wired communication port 135 configured to be connected through one or more
wires to a barrier operator. The feature enhancement device 120 also includes control
 circuitry 140 configured to use the barrier operator communication module 125 to
communicate with any of the plurality of barrier operator types. So configured, the barrier
operator feature enhancement device readily facilitates installation and coordination with a
variety of previously installed barrier operator types. For example, the barrier operator feature
enhancement device is configured to communicate with all or a subset of all barrier operators
currently installed. Thus, a user who purchases a barrier operator feature enhancement device
can be reasonably assured that the enhancement device is compatible with the user's particular
previously installed barrier operator.
[00161           One approach for configuring communication between the barrier operator
feature enhancement device 120 and the previously installed barrier operator 100 includes the
control circuitry 140 being configured to effect sending communication signals from the
barrier operator communication module 125 via a plurality of communication protocols to the
pre-installed barrier operator 100. For example, the barrier operator communication
                                                  -4-

  module 125 can be configured to be able to communicate with the plurality of barrier operator
  types by sending communication signals by one or more of wire-line relay switch activation,
  wire-line serial communications, wire-line encrypted serial communications, a first wireless
  transmission protocol based on a hand-held transmitter frequency, a second wireless
 transmission protocol different from the first wireless transmission protocol, radio frequency
  communications based on a frequency different from hand-held transmitter frequencies, radio
  frequency communications based on frequency hopping for spread spectrum, to name but a
 few, and combinations thereof. Generally speaking, as used in this application, a "hand-held
 transmitter" refers to a typical garage door controller that, for instance, clips to a vehicle visor
 and has a button that a user presses to open and close a garage door.
  [0017]         By one approach, the control circuitry 140 can wait for a time after sending a
 communication signal to the pre-installed barrier operator 100 to receive a communication
 indicating a response from the pre-installed barrier operator 100 before sending another
 communication signal using a different protocol. The communication indicating the response
 from the pre-installed barrier operator can be received in a number of ways. For example, the
 receipt may occur through an input/output module 145 that will be described below.
 Examples signals include ones from a door sensor or limit sensor indicating door movement.
 In response to receiving the communication indicating the response from the pre-installed
barrier operator, the control circuitry 140 configures the barrier operator communication
module 125 to operate according to the communication protocol that effected the response
from the pre-installed barrier operator 100. By this example approach, the barrier operator
feature enhancement device 120 can configure itself or learn the communication protocol with
which it can communicate with the pre-installed barrier operator 100 with minimal
intervention or effort on behalf of the device's user.
[00181           By another approach, the control circuitry 140 may be configured to learn the
communication protocol for the pre-installed barrier operator 100 by analyzing a signal
received by the barrier operator feature enhancement device 120 from a peripheral device. In
one such approach, the control circuitry 140 is configured to analyze a signal received at the
input/output module 145 from a peripheral device comprising a hand-held transmitter 110
associated with the pre-installed barrier operator 100 to determine a communication protocol
                                               -5-

  associated with the pre-installed barrier operator 100. For example, the control circuitry 140
  can break down the radio frequency communication sent by the hand-held transmitter 110 to
  determine its characteristics and then adopt those characteristics for the barrier operator
 communication module 125. United States Patent Numbers 7,057,494 and 7,741,951,
 incorporated herein by reference, describe example approaches currently known to those
 skilled in the art for learning a transmission protocol. Accordingly, this control circuitry 140
 can configure the barrier operator communication module 125 to operate according to the
 communication protocol associated with the pre-installed barrier operator 100.
 [0019]          In still another approach, the barrier operator feature enhancement device 120
 can include a user interface 150. For example, the control circuitry 140 configures the barrier
 operator communications module 125 to operate according to a communication protocol in
 response to receipt of an instruction signal through the user interface 150. In one such
 approach, a list of barrier operator types can be provided to a user through the user
 interface 150 or through separate documentation that will allow the user to use the user
 interface 150 to input the barrier operator type to the feature enhancement device 120. In
 response to receipt of this feedback from the user interface 150, the control circuitry 140 can
 access a memory or other storage such as an online database that will associate a
 communication protocol with the barrier operator type information received through the user
interface 150. The control circuitry 140 will then configure the barrier operator
communication module 125 to operate in accordance with that communication protocol. In a
further aspect, a similar user interface can be provided on other device remote from the feature
enhancement device 120. For instance, a mobile device or other computer can be
programmed, run an application, or receive signals from another device to effect display of a
user interface that allows a user to interact with the feature enhancement device 120.
[00201          Once the communication protocol for the previously installed barrier
operator 100 is determined, the control circuitry 140 is configured to use the barrier operator
communication module 125 to communicate to at least one pre-installed barrier operator 100
to effect at least one of control of operation of at least one feature of the at least one pre
installed barrier operator 100 or monitoring at least one aspect of the at least one pre-installed
barrier operator 100. Control of the operation of a feature of a pre-installed barrier
                                                 -6-

  operator 100 can include moving a barrier 105, stopping or overriding a function of the pre
  installed movable barrier operator 100, operating another function of a pre-installed movable
  barrier 100 such as operating a light, controlling a vacation mode, and the like, or changing an
  operation parameter such as a force setting or programmed operation mode of a pre-installed
  barrier operator 100 to name but a few examples. Generally speaking, sending a
  communication to a pre-installed barrier operator 100 to control operation can be considered
  effecting a change in function of the barrier operator 100. Monitoring an aspect of a pre
  installed barrier operator includes monitoring a barrier 105 status (such as open or closed) and
 watching other operation statuses of the operator 100 including error conditions, tamper
 warnings, and usage history to name only a few examples. As illustrated in FIG. 1, the feature
 enhancement device 120 can be deployed in a garage or other setting where more than one
 pre-installed barrier operator 100 is in use. In such a setting, the feature enhancement device
  120 can be configured to operate with one, both, or in other installations, several or a subset
 of a group of previously installed barrier operators. In an example multiple barrier installation,
 the feature enhancement device can communicate with peripheral devices for a variety of
 barriers by storing identification information that is sent from individual peripheral devices
 together with communication signals to the feature enhancement device. So paired, the feature
 enhancement device can accurately monitor and control each of the multiple barriers with
 which it is paired.
 [0021]          Moreover, the communication to be had with any one pre-installed barrier
 operator 100 depends upon the capabilities of that operator 100. For instance, older operators
 generally only communicated through receipt of a signal that causes immediate operation of
the motor to open or close the barrier 105. In such a situation, the feature enhancement
device 120 will merely send signals to effect such operation and rely on other peripheral
devices to facilitate monitoring of other aspects of the barrier operator such as door position
and obstacle detection. Other operators have the ability to send information out regarding its
status. For example, some operators are able to determine barrier position, force settings,
light settings, and the like and provide this information to other devices. For those operators,
the feature enhancement device 120 is configured to be able to send signals to such an
operator to effect the operator 100 sending back such status information in a manner that the
                                                -7-

  feature enhancement device 120 can understand the information and use the information to
  provide enhanced feature control for a user including, for example, automatically sending
  control signals to change a function of the barrier operator 100 in response to receiving
 particular status information from the operator 100.
  [0022]         Turning again to FIG. 2, the input/output module 145 is operatively in
  communication with the control circuitry 140. The input/output module 145 is configured to
 receive communications from at least one peripheral device configured to provide at least one
 of information regarding an operation status of the pre-installed barrier operator 100 or
 information to effect operation of the pre-installed barrier operator 100. These
 communications can be performed by a number of different physical layer structures. In one
 example, the communication can be carried via a wired or bus connection or via a wireless
 radio communication. The wireless communication can follow any protocol including single
 frequency, spread spectrum, Wi-Fi, BLUETOOTH, and the like. Generally speaking, the
 input/output module 145 is designed to provide for communications with any of a variety of
 devices other than the barrier operator 100. So configured, the input/output module 145 can
 facilitate many types of interactions with other devices, examples of which will be disclosed
 below.
 [0023]          Those skilled in the art will recognize and understand that such a module 145
 and operator communication module 125 may be comprised of a plurality of physically distinct
 elements as is suggested by the illustration shown in FIG. 2. It is also possible, however, to
view this illustration as comprising a logical view, in which case one or more of these elements
 can be enabled and realized via a shared platform such that the operations described as being
separate at the operator communication module 125 and the input/output module 145 are
performed by the same physical elements. It will also be understood that such a shared
platform may comprise a wholly or at least partially programmable platform as are known in
the art. Moreover, the interfaces for the feature enhancement device 120 for the peripheral
devices may include different physical implementations to effect such communication, such as
with wireless or wired obstacle detectors, with a wired or wireless wall controller, with a
wireless or radio communication device, or with another device. Such communication
                                                  -8-

hardware configured to communicate with the individual peripheral devices are generally
known and applicable by those of skill in the art and need no further discussion herein.
 [00241         For example and with reference to FIG. 1, such peripheral devices with which
the input/output module 145 communicates may include a computing device 200, a home
 computer 205, a server computing device 210, a mobile computing device 215, a gateway
device 220 configured to enable communications with one or more of a home computer 205,
 server computing device 210, a mobile computing device 225, or a mobile computing
device 230 over a network 235, and combinations thereof Communications with any of these
devices can be made using wired or wireless protocols as are known in the art.
Communications with such computing devices can facilitate all manner of network
communications such as communications with applications on smart phones and the like or
facility monitoring systems as may be available or controlled by networked computing devices.
 [00251         Other than just computing devices, the peripheral device from which the
input/output module 145 can be configured to receive communications may also include one
or more of an obstacle detector 155, a network adaptor 240, a separate barrier operator 102, a
hand-held transmitter 110, a wall control 115, a door position sensor 160, to name but a few,
and combinations thereof Communications with such devices allow the feature enhancement
device 120 to provide features such as automatic barrier control in response to obstacle
detection through which the feature enhancement device 120 can stop operation of a pre
installed barrier operator 100. In one such example, the obstacle detector 155 is connected to
the feature enhancement device 120. If the feature enhancement device 120 receives a
communication from the obstacle detector 155 that an obstacle has been detected and the
feature enhancement device 120 knows that the barrier operator 100 is closing the barrier, the
feature enhancement device 120 can communicate with the barrier operator 100 to stop the
barrier and potentially send the barrier in the opening direction.
10026]          The feature enhancement device 120 can perform barrier position determination
through communication with such peripheral devices to be able to determine and report out
barrier 105 position among other possibilities or features that can be provided. The position
determination peripheral device 160, 170 allows the feature enhancement device 120 to
determine whether or not the barrier 105 is closed and to report to a remote user the position
                                                -9-

 of the barrier 105 prior to activation of the movable barrier operator. Example position
 determination devices include limit switches 170, door monitors, tilt switches 160, and the
 like. The position determination peripheral device 160, 170 could be a transmit only device
 that transmits position information in response to any change of the position of the
 barrier 105. In an alternative approach, the position determination peripheral device 160, 170
 could be a bidirectional communication device allowing the feature enhancement device 122 to
 request information about the position of the barrier 105.
 [00271          In still another approach, the input/output module 145 is configured to receive
 communications from at least one peripheral device including a sending device where the
 communications include an identification signal indicating that the sending device is available
 for communication with the input/output module 145. In this example, the sending device
 may be any peripheral device described above that can have communications with a feature
 enhancement device 120 and facilitate installation and configuration of these peripheral or
 sending devices with the feature enhancement device 120.       In one example, a sending device
may include a button or other user interactive element that can be actuated by a user that will
 effect sending a signal that, on receipt by the feature enhancement device 120, indicates to the
feature enhancement device 120 that the sending device is ready and able to be used by or
communicate with the feature enhancement device 120. As yet another example, the sending
device can be a device used for notification of imminent barrier motion. In this approach, the
feature enhancement device 120 can be designed such that it requires the detection of the
sending device prior to allowing at least a particular barrier motion.
[00281          In another example, the input/output module 145 can receive wireless local area
network communications with one or more of the peripheral devices. Based on these
communications from the wireless local area network, the control circuitry 140 is configured
to decide which radio frequency communication format is sent to the pre-installed barrier
operator 100. The wireless local area network devices may communicate using Wi-Fi,
Bluetooth, or any other wireless based communication between or among peripheral devices
located in the vicinity of the feature enhance device 120. In one example, the control circuitry
140 may recognize a communication style or command sent to or from the pre-installed barrier
operator 100 via the wireless local area network and configure the operator communication
                                                 - 10 -

 module 125 accordingly. In another example, the control circuitry 140 may receive a
 communication over the wireless local area network with information identifying the pre
 installed barrier operator 100 or its communication method. In one such example, a user may
 look up the pre-installed barrier operator 100 on a computing device 215 and send that
 information regarding the operator 100 to the feature enhancement device 120 using, for
 example, the wireless local area network.
 [0029]          In another example, the input/output module 145 is configured to receive the
 communications from at least one peripheral device comprising an obstacle detector 155, as
 shown in FIG. 1. Such a configuration in combination with the feature enhancement
 device 120 communication with the pre-installed barrier operator 100 allows the feature
 enhancement device 120 to add obstacle detection features to a pre-installed barrier
 operator 100 incapable of incorporating such features. For example, the control circuitry 140
 can be configured to not send a signal to effect closing the barrier 105 by the pre-installed
barrier operator 100 in response to receiving any one of a variety of signals from the obstacle
 detector 155 that it would be unsafe to close the barrier 105. For example, the control
 circuitry 140 is configured not to send a signal to effect closing the barrier 105 in response to
receiving a command to do so when detecting that the obstacle detector 155 is unable to
 detect an obstacle. This may occur where the obstacle detector 155 is an optical detector that
is not properly aligned or otherwise rendered incapable of performing its task of detecting an
obstacle and thus being unable to warn against operation if an obstacle is present. In another
approach, the control circuitry 140 will not send a signal to effect closing the barrier 105 in
response to receiving an indication from the input/output module 145 that the obstacle
detector 155 detected an obstacle or in response to receiving indication that the pre-installed
barrier operator 100 is opening the barrier 105. In still another approach, the control
circuitry 140 may be configured to send a signal to effect opening a barrier 105 by the pre
installed barrier operator 100 in response to detecting that the obstacle detector 155 is unable
to detect an obstacle or in response to receiving indication from the input/output module 145
that the obstacle detector 155 detected an obstacle. Similarly, in response to receiving an
indication from a peripheral device that the pre-installed barrier operator 100 is closing a
barrier 105 such as from a barrier position sensor 160 or the like, the control circuitry 140 is
                                               - 11 -

 configured to send a signal to effect opening the barrier 105 by the pre-installed barrier
 operator 100 in response to detecting that the obstacle detector 155 is unable to detect an
 obstacle or in response to receiving an indication from the input/output module 145 that the
 obstacle detector 155 detected an obstacle. So configured, a variety of the advantages to
 having an obstacle detector can be added to pre-installed barrier operator 100 that is otherwise
 incapable of using such obstacle detector technology.
 [0030]           In another specific example, the input/output module 145 can be configured to
 receive communications from at least one peripheral device including a sensor 160 disposed to
 detect a location of a barrier 105 operated by the pre-installed barrier operator 100. The
 sensor 160 is illustrated as a tilt sensor, although any of a variety of other sensors may be used
 such as a limit switch, an accelerometer, a gravity sensor, or combinations thereof Limit
 switches can be magnetic or physical switches placed along a track or other path of travel for
 the barrier 105 to detect the location of the barrier 105. A tilt sensor may comprise a
 microelectromechanical (MEMS) switch, an optical sensor, or other physical switch that is
mounted to detect the barrier's 105 orientation. For example, the tilt sensor 160 as known in
the art is mounted on the barrier 105 to determine the barrier 105's vertical or horizontal
 orientation and based on that information, a determination can be made as to whether the door
is open, i.e., the barrier is horizontally disposed, or closed, i.e., the barrier is vertically
disposed. An accelerometer may be piezo electric based or MEMS switch as known in the art.
  In still another approach, the input/output module 145 can be configured to receive
communications from at least one peripheral device including a hand-held transmitter 110
configured to send barrier commands via a radio frequency transmission to the input/output
module 145.
 [0031]          In yet another approach, the input/output module 145 is configured to receive
communications from at least one peripheral device including a network adapter 240 to effect
a connection to the Internet. As illustrated in FIG. 1, the network adapter 240 is a separate
device plugged into the wall that can communicate with the input/output module 145 with the
feature enhancement device 120 using any available communication method. The network
adapter 240 then has a separate connection to a network that facilitates a communication to
the Internet. This communication or connection can be accomplished in a variety of ways as
                                                 - 12 -

 recognized by those skilled in the art. For example, the network adapter 240 may have a
 wireless connection to a cellular standard to facilitate the connection to the Internet. By
 another approach, the network adaptor 240 can incorporate a power line communication
 protocol whereby communications are transmitted over local power lines between devices
 connected to the power lines. In still another approach, the network adaptor 240 can create a
network connection via an Ethernet wire line connection to a network device. Another
 example network adapter 240 connection approach is a Wi-Fi connection such as with the
wireless device 220. The network adaptor 240 in various approaches can plug into the feature
 enhancement device 120 to provide such communication abilities or be built into the device as
part of the input/output module 145. For instance, in this example, the input/output module
 145 can communicate using a wireless communication standard such as Wi-Fi to exchange
network communications with the network device 220.
 [0032]         In any event, the input/output module 145 is configured to send
communications to and receive communications from devices over the Internet. Such
communications may include receiving commands to operate the pre-installed barrier operator
 100 from a device over the Internet or to send status information regarding the pre-installed
barrier operator 100 to a device over the Internet. So configured, the feature enhancement
device 120 can allow a user to use a mobile computing device 230 that is located remote from
the pre-installed barrier operator 100 to operate the barrier operator 100 or to simply receive
information regarding whether the barrier is open or closed, for example, or whether a
particular vehicle is in the garage.
[00331          For example, and as illustrated in FIGS. 2 and 3, the barrier operator feature
enhancement device 120 may include a presence detector 170 configured to detect presence of
a vehicle 175 and is in operable communication with the control circuitry 140. Presence
detectors 170 can include passive infrared detectors, a photo beam system, a magnetic
detector, a capacitance detector, sound detector, a camera with image analysis algorithms, or
a communication system designed to detect identification information from a vehicle 175, or
cell phone of the user from the radio communications such as Bluetooth, each of which is
known in the art and needs no further description here. Examples include United States
Patent Numbers 7,221,289 and 7,994,896, each of which is incorporated by reference in its
                                               - 13 -

  entirety herein. As an example a magnetic detection peripheral device can be mounted just
 below the preinstalled operator 100. When the vehicle is present it affect the magnetic field
  generated by the detector in such a way that the detector device can determine whether the
 vehicle is positioned below is or not. In turn, the control circuitry 140 is configured to effect
  communication with one or more of the peripheral devices in response to an initial detection of
 the vehicle 175. As described above and is further illustrated in FIG. 3, the feature
 enhancement device 120 through its input/output module 145 can be configured to
 communicate with any of a variety of other devices. Accordingly, the feature enhancement
 device 120 can effect changes in the operation of a variety of those devices in response to
 detecting presence or absence of a vehicle 175. For example, in response to an initial
 detection of the vehicle 175 the control circuitry 140 can effect a communication with a
 thermostat device 305 to effect a change in temperature setting for a climate control
 system 310 of a structure associated with the barrier 105. Another example includes effecting
 communication with a lighting control device 315 to effect a change in a lighting configuration
 such as lights for a home 320. For instance, in response to detecting an initial presence of a
 vehicle 175 driving into the driveway or garage, the feature enhancement device 120 can effect
 lighting of certain rooms that the driver of the vehicle 175 will first enter upon exiting the
 garage. Other lighting configurations are of course possible. In another example, in response
to initial detection of the vehicle, the control circuitry 140 can effect communication with a
 computing device 330 to effect synchronization of data stored in the vehicle 175 at a data
storage device 333 with data stored on the computing device 330. Such data can be any of a
variety of things, such as media files, mapping data, navigation data, vehicle information
(including operation statistics, maintenance needs, and the like), and combinations thereof
 [0034]         In still another example, in response to an initial detection of the vehicle 175, the
control circuitry 140 can effect a communication with a security system 340 to effect a change
in status of the security system 340. For instance, detection of the vehicle 175 in the garage
can initiate a disarming of a home security system with respect to an entry from the garage
into the house or other building or security structure. A similar approach can be applied to a
commercial setting with respect to causing a change in a commercial security system in
response to detecting presence of a particular vehicle.
                                                - 14 -

  [0035]         In still another example, in response to an initial detection of the vehicle 175,
  control circuitry 140 can effect communication with the home-based computing device 330 to
  effect sending a message to a user of the home-based computing device 330. One such
 message may simply be a text or similar message to someone else at the home indicating that a
 vehicle has arrived in the garage. In still another example, in response to an initial detection of
 the vehicle 175, control circuitry 140 can effect a communication with a gateway
  communication device 350, such as a Wi-Fi router or home automation gateway device, or a
 direct communication with one or more of the thermostat device 305, climate control
 system 310, lighting controller 315, computing device 330, security system 340, and home
 based computing device 330 as opposed to having direct communication in between the
 feature enhancement device 120 and those various other devices. The communication can be
 any known communication method including Z-wave, Zigbee, INSTEON, and X1 0 to name
 but a few examples.
 [00361          Similarly, the feature enhancement device 120 may also communicate with any
 of the above devices in response to an initial detection of the absence of the vehicle 175. In
 this example, after the vehicle 175 drives out of the garage, the presence detector 170 will
 notice that the car 175 is no longer in the garage, and in response to the presence detector 170
 making that determination, the control circuitry 140 can effect communication with any of the
 above devices to effect a change in their status, as described above. For example, the
 thermostat device 305 may be commanded to change a default temperature for the home while
 the occupant is gone, the security system 340 may be armed while the occupant is gone, the
 lighting controller device 315 may be set to turn the lights off when the occupant is gone
during the daytime, and a message may be sent to a user using a computing device 330 that is
still in the house providing notice that the vehicle 175 has left the garage.
 [00371         Another feature that can be added by the barrier operator feature enhancement
device 120 is the ability to detect and respond to a forced entry. In one such approach, in
response to receiving from a peripheral device or from the pre-installed barrier operator 100 a
communication indicating an attempt at forced entry, the control circuitry 140 is configured to
send a communication to another of the peripheral devices to effect a security system
response. For instance, a device 165 may be placed on the door or rails that can sense when a
                                                 - 15 -

 person tries to force open the door 105 and responsively send a signal regarding this attempt
 to the feature enhancement device 120. This device 165 can detect the attempt to force open
 the door 105 by measuring sound, vibration, door motion, and/or any other detection method
 as known in the art. Some known barrier operators also have this ability to sense the forced
 entry and generate a signal that can be received by the feature enhancement device 120. In
 response to receiving such a signal, the feature enhancement device 120 can communicate
 with a security system 340 or otherwise sound an alarm such as flashing its light 180 or
 sounding an alarm from its sound generator 185. Other examples include sending a
 communication to a vehicle 175 to effect locking the vehicle 175, to effect engagement of the
 vehicle's security system alarm, to effect disablement of the vehicle's starting mechanism,
 and/or to effect flashing of the vehicle's lights. Another example includes sending a
 communication to a computing device 330 to effect an announcement over a local security
 system 340 or to effect blinking of lights 320 at an associated structure, for example, in a
home. In still another example, a communication may be sent to a network enabled device
220, 240 to effect sending a communication to a mobile computing device 230 regarding the
attempted or forced entry such that a homeowner can receive an alert on the homeowner's
tablet or phone regarding the attempted or forced entry.
 [00381         Another feature that may be enabled with the feature enhancement device 120
having a presence detector 170 includes changing parameters of a timer to close function
based on the presence or absence of the vehicle 175. More specifically, the control
circuitry 140 can be configured to effect a timer to close function including sending a signal to
the barrier operator 100 to close the barrier 105 in response to the passage of time. The
control circuitry 140 is also configured to, in response to receiving a signal from the presence
detector 170 indicating presence or absence of the vehicle 175, change the parameters of the
timer to close function. For example, the timer to close function may be inhibited by the
control circuitry 140 if the presence detector 170 senses the presence of a vehicle 175.
Similarly, the control circuitry 140 may enable a timer to close feature in response to the
detection by the presence detector 170 that there are no vehicles left in the garage.
10039]         In still another approach, the presence detector 170 can be configured to
determine the presence or absence of a particular vehicle 175, such that various features can
                                                - 16 -

  be enabled or disabled in response to the detection of particular vehicles. More specifically,
  and in one example, the presence detector 170 can be configured to detect presence or
  absence of a plurality of specific vehicles through detection of a vehicle specific identifier
  received from individual ones of the specific vehicles. For instance, a given vehicle may have a
  universal garage door operator transmitter that is configured to send an identification signal to
  the movable barrier operator either directly or through an intermediary device or network.
  The input/output module 145 or presence detector 170 of the feature enhancement device 120
 may receive that signal and decode the identification signal to identify the vehicle 175 and
 operate in accordance with pre-programming with respect to enabling or disabling certain
 features or actions in response to the presence or absence of the specific vehicle 175. Other
 options for determining or receiving the vehicle's identification number include receiving a
 Bluetooth communication from the vehicle, receiving a cellular communication from the
 vehicle, receiving communications from a specific user's mobile device through (such as
 though Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, mobile network communication, or the like)or by other means
 known to those skilled in the art.
 [00401          Turning again to FIG. 2, the feature enhancement device 120 may further
 include a light 180 and a sound generator 185. The control circuitry 140 is configured to
 effect generation of a sound by the sound generator 185 and flashing of the light 180 in
 coordination with sending a signal to effect closing of the barrier 105 by the pre-installed
barrier operator 100. Typically in this situation where the barrier operator 100 receives the
 command to operate the barrier operator 100 from a device that is remote from the garage,
 flashing the light 180 and producing a sound from the sound generator or speaker 185 acts as
 a warning to those in the vicinity of the garage that the barrier 105 will be closing. In one
example, the control circuitry 140 is configured to disable generation of a sound by the sound
generator 185 with flashing of the light 180 in response to determining that the pre-installed
barrier operator 100 includes a sound generator and light effect to provide an alert regarding
closing of a barrier 105 by the pre-installed barrier operator 100. This configuration allows
the feature enhancement device 120 to not unnecessarily duplicate the effect as may be
provided by the pre-installed barrier operator 100.
                                                 - 17 -

   [0041]         In accord with the structures described above, and with reference to FIG. 4, a
   method 400 of operation of a feature enhancement device 120, which can be considered a
   "retro-fit" device, will be described. The method includes sending 410 communication signals
   from a communication module via a plurality of communication protocols to a pre-installed
  barrier operator. The retro-fit device receives 415 a communication indicating a response
  from the pre-installed barrier operator, and, in response, the retro-fit device configures 420 the
  communication module to operate according to a communication protocol that effected the
  response from the pre-installed barrier operator. Accordingly, the retro-fit device is now in a
  position to communicate with the pre-installed barrier operator to provide one or more
  additional features that may have been missing from the pre-installed barrier operator.
  [0042]          For example, the retro-fit device may receive 425 information from a peripheral
  device and determine 430 an action or setting change for the pre-installed barrier operator
 based on the information from the peripheral device. After making that determination, the
 retro-fit device sends 430 a communication signal according to the communication protocol to
 the pre-installed barrier operator. That communication signal is configured to effect the action
 or setting change to the pre-installed barrier operator. As described above, the process of
 configuring the communication module to operate according to a particular communication
 protocol may include consideration or utilization of information from one or more peripheral
 devices to help make the determination of which protocol to use in communicating with the
 pre-installed barrier operator.
 [0043]           In an additional alternative embodiment, the functionality or logic described
 with respect to FIG. 4 and elsewhere in this disclosure may be embodied in the form of code
 that may be executed in a separate processor circuit. If embodied in software, each block may
 represent a module, segment, or portion of code that comprises program instructions to
 implement the specified logical function(s). The program instructions may be embodied in the
 form of source code that comprises human-readable statements written in a programming
language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable
execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code
may be converted from the source code, etc. If embodied in hardware, each block may
represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical
                                                - 18 -

  function(s). Any of these structures are known to those of skill in the art and needs no further
  description.
  [0044]        The feature enhancement device 120 described in this application may be
  packaged together with any of a variety of the peripheral devices described above to facilitate
 provision of features to pre-installed barrier operators. For example, the feature enhancement
  device may be sold together with obstacle detectors, a tilt sensor for mounting on the door, a
 remote control device, a network adapter, and the like. Such a kit can then be purchased by a
 user and installed as described above to provide enhanced operability to the barrier operator
 previously installed at the user's premises.
  [0045]        In one specific example, FIG. 5 illustrates one potential arrangement of the
 feature enhancement device 120. In this approach, the preinstalled operator 100 is connected
 to the feature enhancement device 120 via wire connections to the operator's command
 input 502 and to the operator's obstruction input 504. Feature enhancement device 120 is also
 connected via wires 506 to the original wall control 500 that came with the preinstalled
 operator 100. The handheld transmitter's 110 radio frequency signal is received by the feature
 enhancement device 120 to activate the preinstalled operator 100 via the feature enhancement
 device 120. The feature enhancement device 120 is also connected via a wire 530 to a
router/modem 520, which connects the system to the Internet in well-known method. In this
way, the feature enhancement device 120 can allow activation of the barrier operator from the
Internet, from the preinstalled operators wall control 500, and from the handheld
transmitter 110. Not shown is the possibility of utilizing the wireless capabilities of feature
enhancement device 120 to communicate directly with a portable computational device. The
communication can be done by any of a number of possible communication formats including
Bluetooth and Wi-Fi as examples. Due to the communications being routed through the
feature enhancement device 120, the feature enhancement device 120 is able to control when
and if command reaches the preinstalled operator 100.
[00461         As explained earlier, the feature enhancement device 120 can have a light 180
and a sound generator 185. The light 180 and sound generator 185 can be utilized to pre-warn
before the command is sent to the preinstalled barrier operator 100. For example, if the feature
enhancement device 120 received a command to move or close the barrier over the Internet,
                                               - 19 -

  the feature enhancement device 120 can turn on or flash the light 180 and/or play a warning
  sound from the sound generator of a time before sending a command to the pre-installed
  barrier operator 100 to move or close the barrier. In this way, unattended operation of the
  preinstalled barrier operator can be announced prior to the motion of the barrier.
  [00471         The feature enhancement device 120 can also report on the status of the
  preinstalled barrier operator 100. For example, the feature enhancement device 120 can
  monitor the door's position through communication with the sensor 160 and knowledge of the
  commands given to the barrier operator 120 and then notify a remote device via the Internet
 or through local wireless communications of the present status of the barrier 105. In the case
 where a handheld transmitter 190 is directly paired with the preinstalled operator 100 to move
 the barrier 105, the feature enhancement device 120 can still monitor the barrier 105 status
 through communication with the door position sensor 160.
  [00481         In this example, the feature enhancement device 120 is wired to the obstacle
 detectors 155 via a set of wires 157. The feature enhancement device 120 can monitor the
 obstacle detectors 155 to ensure that they are functioning properly and feature enhancement
 device 120 can control the barrier operator 100 accordingly for combination of the command
 input 502 and the other obstruction input 504. The feature enhancement device 120 can also
 monitor the actions of the preinstalled operator 100 via the sensor 160 to ensure that the
 operator is performing the intended function. If the barrier 105 is in motion in the downward
direction and the feature enhancement device 120 detects a failure of the obstacle
detector 155, the feature enhancement device 20 can force the operator 100 to reverse
direction by shorting the obstruction input 504. If that action is not followed, the feature
enhancement device 120 can give one or more commands via the command input 502 to
perform the desired function. In another example, FIG. 6 illustrates a system where the
feature enhancement device 120 is completely wireless. In this situation, the feature
enhancement device 120 can be a module that plugs into the wall somewhere near the garage,
such as at a typical electrical outlet. In this example, the preinstalled operator 100 includes
preinstalled obstacle detectors 155 that are directly connected to and monitored by the
operator 100 via wires 510.
                                                 - 20 -

  [0049]        In the example of FIG. 6, the feature enhancement device 120 communicates
 with a Wi-Fi router/modem 610, which is connected to the Internet using methods well known
 in the art. Feature enhancement device 120 also communicates to the preinstalled barrier
 operator 100 by sending a radio transmission to activate the operator 100. A door position
 sensor 160 wirelessly communicates with the feature enhancement device 120. A handheld
 transmitter 110 communicates with the feature enhancement device 120 via wireless
 communication. A wall button 600 communicates wirelessly with the feature enhancement
 device 120, although the wall button 600 aspect can be included within the device 120. An
 original transmitter 190 is paired and communicates directly with the preinstalled operator
 100. Although not shown explicitly in this figure, the feature enhancement device 120 is able
 to communicate directly and wirelessly with other computational devices to provide direct
 access for the computational device to effect activation of the preinstalled operator 100 and
 obtain information regarding a status of the barrier 105. This example enables Internet
 activation of the barrier operator 100 and marking of the barrier position allowing long-range
 operation and monitoring of the preinstalled barrier operator.
 [00501         Those skilled in the art will recognize that a wide variety of modifications,
 alterations, and combinations can be made with respect to the above described embodiments
without departing from the scope of the invention. For example, although the feature
enhancement device is described largely in the context of a garage in use with a garage door
opener, such a feature enhancement device can be applied in other barrier operator contexts,
such as gate operators and the like. Moreover, any of the retro-fit features described herein
can be incorporated into a movable barrier operator. For instance, the various capabilities
described with respect to sensing vehicle presence or absence, sensing forced entry, and the
like can be triggered or controlled by a movable barrier operator incorporating the associated
features of such a retro-fit device. Such modifications, alterations, and combinations are to be
viewed as being within the ambit of the inventive concept.
                                                - 21 -

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     An apparatus comprising:
   a communication module configured to be able to communicate with a plurality of barrier
       operator types that use different communication protocols by sending communication
        signals by at least one of wireless and wired communication protocols;
   control circuitry configured to use the communication module to communicate with any of the
       plurality of barrier operator types, the control circuitry configured to use the barrier
       operator communication module to communicate to at least one pre-installed barrier
       operator to control operation of at least one feature of the at least one pre-installed barrier
       operator;
   an input / output module operatively in communication with the control circuitry, the input /
       output module configured to communicate with at least one first peripheral device
       configured to provide information regarding an operation status of the pre-installed barrier
       operator or an associated movable barrier, and with at least one second peripheral device
       configured to effect operation of the pre-installed barrier operator;
   wherein the control circuitry is configured to, in response to the communication with the at
       least one second peripheral device, effect communicating with the pre-installed barrier
       operator to effect an action or setting change of the pre-installed barrier operator;
   wherein the control circuitry is configured to control the communication module to send
       communication signals using the different communication protocols to the pre-installed
       barrier operator;
   wherein at least one of the input/output module and the control circuitry are configured to
       receive an instruction signal through a user interface, wherein the received instruction
        signal comprises information pertaining to a particular barrier operator type;
   wherein the control circuitry is configured to, in response to receiving the instruction signal,
       access a memory that associates a communication protocol with a barrier operator type
       among the plurality of barrier operator types, and configure the communication module to
       use a particular communication protocol that the memory associates with the particular
        barrier operator type.
                                                 22

2.       The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the user interface is configured to receive input
information that corresponds with a particular barrier operator type among the plurality of barrier
operator types, wherein the instruction signal sent through the user interface comprises information
pertaining to the particular barrier operator type corresponding to the received input information.
3.       The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a local user interface configured to display a
list of barrier operator types and to receive an input signal corresponding to a selection of a
particular barrier operator type among the barrier operator types displayed on the list, wherein the
instruction signal sent through the user interface comprises information pertaining to the particular
barrier operator type corresponding to the received input signal.
4.       The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the input/output module is configured to communicate
with a remote user interface provided on a mobile device, wherein the remote user interface is
configured to display a list of barrier operator types and to receive an input signal corresponding
to a selection of a particular barrier operator type among the barrier operator types displayed on
the list, and wherein the instruction signal sent through the user interface comprises information
pertaining to the particular barrier operator type corresponding to the received input signal.
5.       The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the input / output module is configured to communicate
with at least one peripheral device comprising a network adaptor to effect a connection to Internet.
6.       The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the memory comprises an online database, and the
control circuitry is configured to communicate with the online database over the Internet via the
network adaptor.
7.       The apparatus of claim I wherein the input / output module is configured to send
communications to and receive communications from devices over the Internet.
8.       The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the input / output module is configured to receive
commands to one or both of operate the pre-installed barrier operator from a mobile computing
                                                  23

device over the Internet and send status information regarding the pre-installed barrier operator to
the mobile computing device over the Internet.
9.       The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the input / output module is configured to receive
communications from a wireless door position sensor using a protocol different from the particular
communication protocol used to communicate with the at least one pre-installed barrier operator.
 10.     The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the input / output module is configured to send status
information regarding the pre-installed barrier operator to a mobile computing device over the
Internet, wherein the status information includes information based at least in part on the
communications received from the wireless door position sensor regarding a detected location of
the barrier operated by the pre-installed barrier operator.
11.      An apparatus comprising:
     a communication module configured to be able to communicate with a plurality of different
         barrier operator types that use different communication               protocols by     sending
         communication signals by wireless or wired communication protocols;
     control circuitry configured to use the communication module to communicate with any of the
         plurality of barrier operator types, the control circuitry configured to use the barrier
         operator communication module to communicate to at least one pre-installed barrier
         operator to control operation of at least one feature of the at least one pre-installed barrier
         operator;
     an input / output module operatively in communication with the control circuitry, the input /
         output module configured to communicate with at least one peripheral device configured
         to effect operation of the pre-installed barrier operator; and
     a local user interface operatively in communication with the control circuitry, the local user
         interface configured to receive a user interaction comprising information pertaining to a
         particular barrier operator type among the plurality of different barrier operator types;
                                                   24

    wherein the control circuitry is configured to control the barrier operator communication
        module to send communication signals using the different communication protocols to the
        pre-installed barrier operator;
    wherein the control circuitry is configured to, in response to receiving a local instruction signal
        via the user interaction, access a memory that associates a communication protocol with a
        barrier operator type among the plurality of barrier operator types; and
    wherein the control circuitry is configured to configure the communication module to use a
        particular communication protocol that the memory associates with the particular barrier
        operator type selected via the user interaction.
12.     The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the input/output module is further configured to receive
a remote instruction signal through a remote user interface provided on a mobile device,
    wherein the remote user interface is configured to display a list of barrier operator types and
        to receive an input corresponding to a selection of a particular barrier operator type among
        the barrier operator types displayed on the list, and
    wherein the received remote instruction signal comprises information pertaining the particular
        barrier operator type selected via the remote user interface.
13.     The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to, in
response to receiving the remote instruction signal via the input/output module, access the memory
that associates a communication protocol with a barrier operator type among the plurality of barrier
operator types; and
    wherein the control circuitry is configured to configure the communication module to use a
        particular communication protocol that the memory associates with the particular barrier
        operator type selected via the remote user interface.
14.     The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the input / output module is further configured to
communicate with at least one peripheral device comprising a network adaptor to effect a
connection to Internet.
                                                  25

15.      The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the memory comprises an online database and the
control circuitry is configured to communicate with the online database over the Internet via the
network adaptor.
 16.     A method comprising:
receiving, via a user interface, an input corresponding to a selected barrier operator type among a
     plurality of different barrier operator types that use different communication protocols;
receiving an instruction signal at a control circuit, the instruction signal comprising information
     pertaining to the selected barrier operator type corresponding to the input received via the user
     interface;
in response to receiving the instruction signal, accessing, via the control circuitry, a memory that
     associates a communication protocol with an individual barrier operator type, and obtaining
     information pertaining to a particular communication protocol that the memory associates with
     the selected barrier operator type;
controlling, via control circuitry, a communication module to send communication signals to a
     pre-installed barrier operator, the communication signals being sent according to the particular
     communication protocol associated with the selected barrier operator type;
receiving, at an input / output module, a communication from a peripheral device configured to
     effect operation of the pre-installed barrier operator; and
in response to receiving the communication at the input/output module, sending a communication
     signal according to the particular communication protocol from the communication device to
     the pre-installed barrier operator, the communication signal configured to effect an action or
     setting change of the pre-installed barrier operator.
 17.     The method of claim 16, wherein the user interface is provided on a mobile device that
communicates with the input/output module via the internet.
                                                    26

 18.     The method of claim 16, wherein the user interface is a local user interface that is in
operative communication with the control circuitry.
19.      The method of claim 16, further comprising receiving, at the input / output module,
information from a wireless door position sensor using a protocol different from the particular
communication protocol used to communicate with the at least one pre-installed barrier operator,
and
sending, via the input/output module, status information regarding the pre-installed barrier
     operator to a mobile computing device over the Internet, wherein the status information
     includes information based at least in part on the communications received from the wireless
     door position sensor regarding a detected location of the barrier operated by the pre-installed
     barrier operator.
20.      The method of claim 16, wherein the accessing a memory includes accessing an online
database over the Internet via a network adaptor.
21.      The method of claim 16, further comprising displaying a list of different barrier operator
     types on a user interface,
         wherein the input corresponding to a selected barrier operator type via the user interface
                 corresponds with a barrier operator type among the different barrier operator types
                 displayed on the user interface.
                                                  27

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
