                                        ABSTRACT
   A gaming machine for awarding monetary and non-monetary rewards, the gaming
   machine comprising: a display; a memory; at least one input mechanism configured to
   receive user input from a player; and a game controller configured to access and
 5 execute instructions stored in the memory. The game controller is configured to present
   at least one game of chance on the display; determine a winning event for the at least
   one game of chance; present at least one game of skill on the display; determine a
   winning event for the at least one game of skill; based on a winning event of the game
   of chance, determine whether the player should be awarded a non-monetary reward;
10 and   based on a winning event of the game of skill, determine whether the player
   should be awarded a monetary reward.

                                                   2/21
                                               U)U
                                        E b                      cn C
                                        a)~CV4                   a
                                                                 0
                                                          0     0
                  0                                    U
                  E                                    U)
                                               U)               E
                                U)      -                       0
                       =_404E6                                     04
                CDnE                                               nI
                  00U
                  E
            E      )V
               o0E                                   0         0       a)
                             0E                                             0
C)I                               0                E         0         0
    C-4             nI             00              0 c       0o
    U)
          0
          a)
             OC'41
                :                      C)          0
                                                                       E-'.  -- C' C't0
                                                                   400
        0   -0                                     c                   03
0                                  0                         U
                                   V)=             Cl)         U4'
                EE
                 0E
                 0D
                                    =3                      =3

                                                1
                                                           II
      "Gaming system and method comprising monetary and non-monetary prizes"
   Technical Field
   The present disclosure relates to an improved gaming system and an improved method,
 5 system and machine for gaming.
   Background
   Reel-style gaming machines allow players to make bets on symbols that appear on the
   real or virtual reels, offering awards to players based on the combinations of symbols
10 that appear. These games appeal to players as a way of winning cash or credits.
   However, it can be difficult to balance the need to make the gaming machines
   profitable with the need to create player satisfaction, as players can get bored and
   discouraged if they fail to win prizes.
15 It is desired to address or ameliorate one or more shortcomings or disadvantages
   associated with prior methods, systems and machines for gaming, or to at least provide
   a useful alternative thereto.
   Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
20 been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or
   all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge
   in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of
   each claim of this application.
25 Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or
   step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element,
   integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
30 Summary
   Some embodiments relate to a gaming machine for awarding monetary and non
   monetary rewards, the gaming machine comprising:
           a display;
           a memory;
35         at least one input mechanism configured to receive user input from a player; and

                                                2
           a game controller configured to access and execute instructions stored in the
   memory to:
                 present at least one game of chance on the display;
                 determine a winning event for the at least one game of chance;
 5               present at least one game of skill on the display;
                 determine a winning event for the at least one game of skill;
                 based on a winning event of the game of chance, determine whether the
   player should be awarded a non-monetary reward; and
                 based on a winning event of the game of skill, determine whether the
10 player should be awarded a monetary reward.
   In some embodiments, the game controller is configured to access at least one
   monetary pay table to determine whether the player should be awarded a monetary
   reward. According to some embodiments, the game controller is configured to
15 determine whether the player should be awarded a monetary reward by comparing one
   or more symbols generated by the game of chance with the at least one monetary pay
   table.
   In some embodiments, the game controller is configured to access at least one non
20 monetary pay table to determine whether the player should be awarded a non-monetary
   reward. According to some embodiments, the game controller is configured to
   determine whether the player should be awarded a non-monetary reward by comparing
   one or more symbols generated by the game of chance with the at least one non
   monetary pay table.
25
   In some embodiments, the non-monetary reward affects at least one aspect of a
   subsequent game of skill. According to some embodiments, the non-monetary reward is
   an aesthetic item that affects the appearance of a player avatar in the subsequent game
   of skill. According to some embodiments, the non-monetary reward is a game
30 influencing item that affects the performance of a player avatar in the subsequent game
   of skill. According to some embodiments, the game influencing item is a consumable
   item that can be used only once in the subsequent game of skill. According to some
   embodiments, the game influencing item is an enduring item that can be used for the
   duration of the subsequent game of skill.
35

                                               3
   In some embodiments, the non-monetary reward is at least one unit of in-game
   currency. According to some embodiments, the in-game currency can be used to
   purchase aesthetic and game influencing items.
 5 In some embodiments, the non-monetary reward contributes to progress toward the
   completion of a game task. According to some embodiments, the completion of the
   game task results in receiving an aesthetic item that affects the appearance of a player
   avatar in the subsequent game of skill. According to some embodiments, the
   completion of the game task results in receiving a game influencing item that affects
10 the performance of a player avatar in the subsequent game of skill.
   In some embodiments, the game of chance is a reel game. According to some
   embodiments, the awarding of a non-monetary award is determined based on whether
   one or more predetermined reel symbols appear on the reel game. According to some
15 embodiments, the awarding of a monetary award is determined based on whether one
   or more predetermined reel symbols appear on the reel game.
   In some embodiments, the gaming machine is configured to award monetary and non
   monetary prizes based on a predetermined probability distribution. According to some
20 embodiments, the probability distribution creates an inverse relationship between the
   probabilities of winning a monetary prize and a non-monetary prize.
   According to some   embodiments, the probability distribution creates a higher chance of
   winning only one    of a monetary prize and a non-monetary prize compared to the
25 chance of winning   both of a monetary prize and a non-monetary prize or neither of a
   monetary prize nor  a non-monetary prize.
   According to some embodiments, the probability distribution creates a higher chance of
   winning at least one of a monetary prize and a non-monetary prize compared to the
30 chance of winning neither a monetary prize nor a non-monetary prize.
   In some embodiments, the controller is further configured to store the monetary award
   in the memory, and generate an indication of the monetary award configured to be
   displayed on the display
35

                                                 4
   Some embodiments relate to a method of determining monetary and non-monetary
   prizes to be awarded, the method comprising:
           presenting at least one game of chance on a display of a gaming machine;
           determining a winning event for the at least one game of chance;
 5         presenting at least one game of skill on the display;
           determining a winning event for the at least one game of skill;
           based on a winning event of the game of chance, determining whether a player
   should be awarded a non-monetary reward; and
           based on a winning event of the game of skill, determining whether a player
10 should be awarded a monetary reward.
   Some embodiments further comprise accessing at least one monetary pay table to
   determine    whether the player should be awarded             a monetary reward. Some
   embodiments further comprise determining whether the player should be awarded a
15 monetary reward by comparing one or more symbols generated by the game of chance
   with the at least one monetary pay table.
   Some embodiments further comprise accessing at least one non-monetary pay table to
   determine whether the player should be awarded a non-monetary reward. Some
20 embodiments further comprise determining whether the player should be awarded a
   non-monetary reward by comparing one or more symbols generated by the game of
   chance with the at least one non-monetary pay table.
   According to some embodiments, the non-monetary monetary reward affects at least
25 one aspect of a subsequent game of skill.
   Some embodiments relate to a computer-readable medium storing machine-readable
   instructions, which when executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform the
   method of some other embodiments.
30
   Brief Description of Drawings
   Embodiments are described below in further detail and by way of example, with
   reference to the accompanying drawing, in which:
           Figure 1 is a diagrammatic representation of a gaming system in accordance
35 with some embodiments, implemented in the form of a stand-alone gaming machine;

                                                5
           Figure 2 is a schematic block diagram of core components of the gaming system
   of Figure 1;
           Figure 3 is a schematic diagram of a gaming system in accordance with some
   embodiments, with the gaming system implemented over a network;
 5         Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram of the software components of a gaming
   system according to some embodiments;
           Figure 5 is a flow diagram illustrating a method of controlling game play on a
   gaming machine according to some embodiments;
           Figure 6 is an example screenshot of a character selection screen;
10         Figure 7 is an example screenshot of a virtual location selection screen;
           Figure 8 is an example screenshot of a base game screen;
           Figure 9 is a detailed view of the symbol sets shown in Figure 8;
           Figure 10 is an example screenshot of a base game screen;
           Figure 11 is an example screenshot of a meta-game task screen;
15         Figure 12A is an example screenshot of a meta-game task screen showing a task
   being completed;
           Figure 12B is a detailed view of an example player level bar portion of the base
   game screen;
           Figure 12C is an example screenshot of the base game screen highlighting a
20 winning meta-game combination;
           Figure 13 is an example screenshot of a feature game screen;
           Figure 14 is a graph showing an example probability distribution for awarding
   monetary and non-monetary prizes in accordance with some embodiments;
           Figure 15A is an example of a character in accordance with some embodiments;
25         Figure 15B is an example of the character of Figure 15A with some additional
   aesthetic items in accordance with some embodiments;
           Figure 15C is an example of a character of Figure 15A with some additional
   aesthetic and game-influencing items in accordance with some embodiments;
           Figure 16 is an example chart to illustrate the awarding of monetary and non
30 monetary awards according to some embodiments;
           Figure 17 is an example screenshot of a base game screen according to some
   embodiments;
           Figure 18 is a flow diagram illustrating an alternative method of controlling
   game play on a gaming machine according to some embodiments;
35         Figure 19 is an example screenshot of a base game screen showing a quest pop
   up box;

                                                6
           Figure 20 is an example screenshot of an inventory selection screen; and
           Figure 21 is an example screenshot of an alternative inventory selection screen.
   Description of Embodiments
 5 Described embodiments generally relate to a gaming machine. The gaming machine
   may be a gaming machine as shown and described in relation to co-pending and co
   owned International Patent Application No. PCT/AU2017/050206, filed on 8 March
   2017 and entitled "Gaming method, system and machine comprising multiple games",
   the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference. The gaming system
10 can take a number of different forms. In a first form, a stand-alone gaming machine is
   provided wherein all or most components required for implementing the game are
   present in a player operable gaming machine.
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided wherein some of the
15 components required for implementing the game are present in a player operable
   gaming machine and some of the components required for implementing the game are
   located remotely relative to the gaming machine. For example, a "thick client"
   architecture may be used wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
   gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely, such as by a gaming
20 server; or a "thin client" architecture may be used wherein most of the game is executed
   remotely such as by a gaming server and a player operable gaming machine is used
   only to display audible and/or visible gaming information to the player and receive
   gaming inputs from the player.
25 However, it will be understood that other arrangements are envisaged. For example, an
   architecture may be provided wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming
   server and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the gaming server are
   selectively modifiable. For example, the gaming system may operate in standalone
   gaming machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode depending on the
30 game being played, operating conditions, and so on.
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system 100 has several core components. At the
   broadest level, the core components comprise a player interface and a game controller.
   The player interface is arranged to enable interaction between a player and the gaming
35 system and for this purpose includes input/output components required for the player to
   enter instructions and play the game. For example, the input/output components may

                                                7
   include a credit mechanism to enable a player to input credits and receive payouts, one
   or more displays which may comprise a touch screen, and a game play mechanism
   arranged to enable a player to input game playing instructions. The game controller is
   in data communication with the player interface and typically comprises a processor
 5 arranged to process game play instructions and output game player outcomes to the one
   or more displays.     It will be understood that in the present specification, the term
   "processor" refers generally to any device that can process game play instructions and
   may include a microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device or any
   computational device such as a personal computer or a server.
10
   Referring now to Figure 1, reference numeral 100 generally designates a stand-alone
   gaming system including a game. Hereinafter, the stand-alone gaming system 100 will
   be referred to as a gaming machine.
15 The gaming machine 100 includes a console 102 which contains all or most
   components required to implement a game play whereby, at least during part of the
   game play, a player wins or loses a wager. Access to the components is by way of a
   hinged door 105. Mounted to the exterior of the console 102 is a display means in the
   form of at least one visual display unit 104 on which one or more games is played. The
20 video display unit 104 may be implemented as a liquid crystal display, a plasma screen,
   or other high quality digital video display. While the console 102 illustrated in Figure
   1 shows a single visual display unit 104, there may be more than one visual display unit
   on a gaming machine 100. For example, in some embodiments, gaming machine 100
   may have one visual display unit 104 for displaying the game being played, and an
25 additional visual display unit in the form of artwork 120 (described below) for
   displaying advertising or other material. In some embodiments, the additional visual
   display unit may be a video display unit. What is displayed on the visual display unit
   104 will depend on what the intended goal of the unit is in relation to the player and
   any other potential participants in the gaming system. In some embodiments, a plurality
30 of gaming machines 100 may communicate with a central display screen (not shown),
   which may allow for portions of gameplay to be displayed to a wider audience in a
   gaming venue.
   In this example, the gaming machine 100 includes a tactile input for a player to interact
35 via touch with the gaming machine 100.        The tactile input may be in the form of a
   combination of pushbuttons 106 and a touch screen 108 for enabling a player to play

                                                 8
   one or more games. The touch screen 108 is an electronic visual display that can detect
   the presence and location of a touch within the display area. The touch screen 108 may
   be used during game setup, user browsing, or during the game play between start of a
   game and the end of a game, for example. Certain functions of the pushbutton are:
 5 initiation of game play, credit output, gameplay selection, completion of gameplay etc.
   A midtrim 112 of the machine 100 houses the pushbuttons 106.
   The tactile input may optionally or further include a joystick (not shown) comprising a
   stick that pivots on a base and reports its angle or direction to the device it is
10 controlling. The tactile input may optionally or further include a trackpad/touchpad
   (not shown) being a pointing device featuring a tactile sensor to translate the motion
   and position of a user's fingers to a relative position on screen. In some embodiments,
   tactile input may further include a keyboard, electronic mouse, or other input
   mechanism. In some embodiments, the user interface may be a user configurable
15 interface having multiple user input options. It should be appreciated that tactile input
   may include any suitable device that enables the player to produce an input signal that
   is received by the processor 202 (see Figure 2).
   The midtrim 112 may house a credit input mechanism 221 including a bill collector
20 114. The credit input mechanism 221 may alternatively or additionally include a coin
   input chute, a card and/or ticket reader, a magnetic reading head for reading a magnetic
   stripe card, an electronic reader for a proximity card, a near field communications
   reader or any other form of electronic, wireless or contact that can input credit to the
   gaming machine.
25
   A payout mechanism 225 including a coin tray 116 may be mounted beneath the
   console 102 and is provided for cash or other payouts from the machine 100 to the
   player. A hopper device (not shown) is provided which dispenses coins, or tokens
   equal to the amount of credit currently on the machine, into the coin tray 116. Aside
30 from the coin tray 116, payout mechanism 225 may alternatively or additionally
   include a ticket dispenser for issuing a ticket dispensed by a printer which the user can
   redeem for cash, a note dispenser, a near field communications transmitter or means to
   enable remote credit transfer. Other suitable payout mechanisms, such as fund
   transfers to the player's electronically recordable identification card or smart card, may
35 be implemented in accordance with described embodiments.

                                                9
   The gaming machine 100 includes a top box 118 on which artwork 120 or other images
   may be carried in the form of electronic visual display units. The artwork 120 could
   also comprise physical materials such as paper, plastic banners or posters. The artwork
   120 may have generic information related to the machine or gaming system or the
 5 artwork 120 may be specifically made for a particular game to be played on the
   machine 100. While the artwork 120 is shown as being carried on the top box 118, the
   art work 120 can also be positioned in or on the bottom panel of the door 105, or any
   other part of the gaming machine 100 visible to the player. In some embodiments,
   artwork 120 may be a second digital display, which may show jackpot information, for
10 example, or other supplemental video.
   The gaming machine 100 further includes an auditory unit in the form of auditory
   output 208 (see Figure 2) to provide auditory feedback to the player of the gaming
   machine 100.
15
   Referring to Figure 2, game logic circuitry 200 is illustrated. The game logic circuitry
   200 includes a gaming controller 201 (otherwise referred to as a logic cage). As will be
   appreciated by those skilled in the gaming industry, the logic cage 201 includes a box
   like mechanical structure that has slots to guide logic cards into the proper location for
20 electronically plugging into a backplane mounted at the rear of the cage structure. The
   logic cards may contain hardware configured to perform specific functions, and may
   include sound cards, video cards, network cards, hard drives or other memory storage.
   The backplane has connectors for accepting mating connectors on the logic cards. The
   logic cage 201 and associated logic cards form one of the basic components of the
25 gaming machine 100 and is securely housed within the cabinet of the gaming machine
   100.
   Central to the logic cage 201 is a processor 202 which may be a central processing unit,
   a microcontroller-based platform, a suitable integrated circuit, or one or more
30 application-specific integrated circuits (ASIC's).
   In this particular example, the processor 202 is in communication with or operable to
   access or to exchange signals with: memory 204, an audio control component 209, a
   hard meter interface 206, a random number generator 210, a user input component 216,
35 a video display component 212, a credit input component 220 and a payout component
   224.

                                              10
   Instructions and data to control operation of the processor 202 are stored in a memory
   204 which is in data communication with processor 202.          Memory 204 typically
   comprises both volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each type of
 5 memory. For example, the memory 204 may comprise RAM, ROM, and non-volatile
   memory in the form of a memory card, such as compact flash. RAM may include non
   volatile RAM (NVRAM), magnetic RAM (MRAM), ferroelectric RAM (FeRAM), and
   other forms as commonly understood in the gaming industry. Memory 204 comprises a
   game software module 231 storing executable code, which when executed by the
10 processor 202, provides the game on the gaming machine 100.
   In particular, processor 202 runs executable code residing in game software module
   231 of memory 204 that facilitates play of a game by a player through display unit 104
   and/or push buttons 106 and touch sensors 108 mounted in the screen of display unit
15 104. Game software module 231 contains executable program code that defines the
   rules of the game, defines the sequence of gameplay, communicates with external
   systems, monitors peripheral equipment, and maintains integrity of the software code,
   among other things.
20 Audio control component 209 is in communication with audio output 208. Audio
   control component 209 may have its own digital signal processor, analogue to digital
   converters, amplifiers and other circuitry necessary to broadcast the output from the
   speakers.
25 Hard meter interface 206 communicates with hard meters 207. Hard meters 207 contain
   the gaming machine parameters which are required to be stored on a hard meter for
   regulatory reasons, which may include values such as total credit in and total credit out
   in some jurisdictions, for example. The values in hard meters 207 are only ever
   incremented, and cannot be reset or decremented.
30
   Random number generator 210 generates random or pseudo-random numbers for the
   purpose of determining the outcome of chance-based games played on gaming machine
   100. In some embodiments, random number generator 210 may be implemented in
   software as part of game software module 231. In some other embodiments, random
35 number generator 210 may be implemented in firmware or in hardware. In some

                                              11
   embodiments, the form that random number generator 231 takes may be dictated by
   gaming regulations.
   User input component 216 communicates with user inputs 218, which may include
 5 pushbuttons 106 and touch screen sensors 108, among other inputs. Received inputs are
   decoded by user input component 216 and communicated to processor 202.
   Video display component 212 communicates with video display unit 104. Processor
   202 sends instructions to video display component 212, in order to cause images that
10 make up the game sequence to be displayed on video display unit 104. These images
   may be pre-generated images retrieved by processor 202 from memory 204, or the
   images may be generated in real-time by processor 202 executing code modules stored
   in memory 204, as described below with reference to Figure 4. In some embodiments,
   the displayed images may be made up of a pre-generated background retrieved from
15 memory 204 in combination with an animated sequence generated in real-time by
   processor 202.
   Credit input component 220 receives signals from credit input mechanism 221, which
   may include bill collector 114 in some embodiments. Credit input component 220 may
20 use the signals to determine whether or not a player has provided sufficient credit to
   commence or continue gameplay, for example.
   Payout component 224 communicates with payout mechanism 225, which may include
   coin tray 116. Payout component 224 may send instructions to payout mechanism 225,
25 to cause payout mechanism 225 to dispense payment to a player. The payout may be in
   the form of cash, tokens or tickets in some embodiments. In some embodiments, the
   player may receive a code which they can use to collect their payout from a designated
   kiosk. In some embodiments, a player card or account may be credited with the payout
   amount. In some embodiments, a player may be able to finish game play and request a
30 payout at various stages throughout the game. In some embodiments, players may be
   able to request a payout at any stage of the game. The player may be able to use user
   input 118 to request the payout.
   In some embodiments, a player may insert an identification card or ticket into a card
35 reader (not shown) of the gaming machine 100, in order to load information onto
   gaming machine 100. For example, the identification card or ticket may be associated

                                                 12
   with a player account containing credit, player settings, and player progress in a game.
   Such an identification card may be a smart card having a programmed microchip, a
   coded magnetic strip, or coded rewritable magnetic strip, wherein the programmed
   microchip or magnetic strips are coded with a player's identification, credit totals (or
 5 related data), and/or other relevant information. In another embodiment, a player may
   carry a portable device, such as a mobile phone, a radio frequency identification tag, or
   any other suitable wireless device, that communicates a player's identification, credit
   totals (or related data), and other relevant information to the gaming device.
10 One or more of the method steps described in this disclosure may be implemented by
   game software module 231 stored in memory 204.                Instructions stored in game
   software module 231 may be executed by processor 202 or any other processor.
   Further, the processor 202, the memory 204, the game software module 231 stored
   therein, or a combination thereof, may serve as a means for performing one or more of
15 the method steps described herein.
   Figure 3 shows a gaming system 300 in accordance with an alternative embodiment.
   The gaming system 300 includes a network 302, which for example may be or include
   an Ethernet, powerline, multimedia over Coax (MoCA), WiFi, or other type of
20 network.     The network 302 may also comprise a wide area network ("WAN"), the
   plain-old-telephone-system ("POTS), a local area network ("LAN"), a wireless LAN,
   the Internet, or any combination of these and other types of networks. Gaming
   machines 304 are connected to the network 302. The gaming machines 304 provide a
   player operable interface and may be the same as the gaming machines 100 shown in
25 Figure 1 or may have simplified functionality depending on the requirements for
   implementing game play.
   Gaming machines 304 may include game logic circuitry 200 as described above with
   reference to Figure 2. Gaming machines 304 may further include a console similar to
30 console 102 which contains all or most components required to implement a game play
   whereby, at least during part of the game play, a player wins or loses a wager. Access
   to the components may be by way of a hinged door, which may be similar to hinged
   door 105. Mounted to the exterior of the console may be a display means in the form of
   at least one visual display unit, which may be similar to display unit 104, on which one
35 or more games is played. The display unit may be implemented as a liquid crystal
   display, a plasma screen, or other high quality digital video display. There may be more

                                                13
   than one visual display unit on each gaming machine 304. For example, in some
   embodiments, gaming machines 304 may have one visual display unit for displaying
   the game being played, and an additional visual display unit in the form of artwork
   similar to artwork 120 (described below) for displaying advertising or other material. In
 5 some embodiments, the additional visual display unit may be a video display unit.
   What is displayed on the visual display unit will depend on what the intended goal of
   the unit is in relation to the player and any other potential participants in the gaming
   system. In some embodiments, a plurality of gaming machines 304 may communicate
   with a central display screen (not shown), which may allow for portions of gameplay to
10 be displayed to a wider audience in a gaming venue.
   Gaming machines 304 may include a tactile input for a player to interact via touch with
   the gaming machines 304. The tactile input may be in the form of a combination of
   pushbuttons and a touch screen similar to push-buttons 106 and a touch screen 108, for
15 enabling a player to play one or more games. The touch screen may be an electronic
   visual display that can detect the presence and location of a touch within the display
   area. The touch screen may be used during game setup, user browsing, or during the
   game play between start of a game and the end of a game, for example. Certain
   functions of the push-button may include: initiation of game play, credit output,
20 gameplay selection, completion of gameplay etc. A midtrim of the machine 304,
   similar to midtrim 112, may house the push-buttons.
   The tactile input may optionally or further include a joystick comprising a stick that
   pivots on a base and reports its angle or direction to the device it is controlling. The
25 tactile input may optionally or further include a trackpad/touchpad being a pointing
   device featuring a tactile sensor to translate the motion and position of a user's fingers
   to a relative position on screen. In some embodiments, tactile input may further include
   a keyboard, electronic mouse, or other input mechanism. In some embodiments, the
   user interface may be a user configurable interface having multiple user input options.
30
   The midtrim of gaming machine 304 may house a credit input mechanism including a
   bill collector, similar to credit input mechanism 221 and bill collector 114. The credit
   input mechanism may alternatively or additionally include a coin input chute, a card
   and/or ticket reader, a magnetic reading head for reading a magnetic stripe card, an
35 electronic reader for a proximity card, a near field communications reader or any other
   form of electronic, wireless or contact that can input credit to the gaming machine.

                                                14
   A payout mechanism including a coin tray, similar to payout mechanism 225 and coin
   tray 116, may be mounted beneath the console and may be provided for cash or other
   payouts from the machine 1304 to the player. A hopper device may be provided which
 5 dispenses coins, or tokens equal to the amount of credit currently on the machine, into
   the coin tray. Aside from the coin tray, the payout mechanism may alternatively or
   additionally include a ticket dispenser for issuing a ticket dispensed by a printer which
   the user can redeem for cash, a note dispenser, a near field communications transmitter
   or means to enable remote credit transfer. Other suitable payout mechanisms, such as
10 fund transfers to the player's electronically recordable identification card or smart card,
   may be implemented in accordance with described embodiments.
   The gaming machine 304 may include a top box similar to top box 118 on which
   artwork similar to artwork 120 or other images may be carried in the form of electronic
15 visual display units. The artwork could also comprise physical materials such as paper,
   plastic banners or posters. The artwork may have generic information related to the
   machine or gaming system or the artwork may be specifically made for a particular
   game to be played on the machine 304. While the artwork is shown as being carried on
   the top box, the art work can also be positioned in or on the bottom panel of the door,
20 or any other part of the gaming machine 304 visible to the player. In some
   embodiments, the artwork may be a second digital display, which may show jackpot
   information, for example, or other supplemental video.
   The gaming machines 304 further include an auditory unit in the form of auditory
25 output 208 (see Figure 2) to provide auditory feedback to the player of the gaming
   machine 304.
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 308 implements part of the game played by a
   player using a gaming machine 304 and the gaming machine 304 implements part of
30 the game. With this embodiment, as both the game server 308 and the gaming machine
   100 implement part of the game, they collectively provide a game controller having
   similar functions to controller 201. A database management server 310 may manage
   storage of game programs and associated data for downloading or access by the gaming
   devices 304 in a database 318.
35

                                               15
   In a thin client embodiment, game server 308 implements most or all of the game
   played by a player using a gaming machine 304 and the gaming machine 304
   essentially provides only the player interface. With this embodiment, the game server
   308 provides the game controller. The gaming machine 304 will receive player
 5 instructions, pass these to the game server 305 which will process them and return
   game play outcomes to the gaming machine 304 for display. In a thin client
   embodiment, the gaming machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running
   software that provides a player interface operable using standard computer input and
   output components.
10
   Additional servers may be provided to assist in the administration of the gaming
   network 300, including for example a gaming floor management server 320, and a
   licensing server 322 to monitor the use of licenses relating to particular games. An
   administrator terminal 324 is provided to allow an administrator to run the network 302
15 and the devices connected to the network.
   The gaming system 300 may communicate with other gaming systems, other local
   networks, for example a corporate network, and/or a wide area network such as the
   Internet, for example through a firewall 330.
20
   In some embodiments, functionality at the server side of the network may be
   distributed over a plurality of different physical computers. For example, functional
   software elements may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a separate server
   may be provided. For example, the game server 308 could run a random number
25 generator engine. Alternatively, a separate random number generator server could be
   provided. Further, in some embodiments a plurality of game servers could be provided
   to run different games or a single game server may run a plurality of different games as
   required by game machines 304.
30 A functional block diagram 400 illustrating software components of gaming machine
   100 is shown in Figure 4.      Memory 204 stores game software module 231 which
   comprises a number of executable code modules. Memory 204 also stores various game
   data.
35 Game data stored by memory 204 includes symbol data 401, base game pay-table data
   402, meta-game pay-table data 403, meta-game task data 404, character data 405,

                                               16
   virtual location data 406, feature game map data 407, and feature game prize data 408.
   In some embodiments, memory 204 may further store information about one or more
   game themes or game scenarios, which may be selectable by a player of the game, or
   automatically selected prior to game commencement. A theme may include a number
 5 of conceptually linked game aspects that contribute to the overall appearance and/or
   style of the game, as well as the specific appearance of various aspects of the game, as
   described below. A scenario may be linked to a game theme, or vice versa, and may
   include details of the game style, game objectives, and storyline of the game.
10 Symbol data 401 may include data relating to the symbols to be displayed on visual
   display unit 104 of gaming machine 100 during the base game. For example, the
   particular images used for each symbol may be stored, as well as an identification code
   relating to the symbol, and a value of the symbol in the base game. The visual
   appearance of the symbols may be dependent on the theme of the game.
15
   Base game pay-table data 402 may include data relating to the pay-table used in the
   base game played on gaming machine 100. Base game pay-table data 402 may be used
   to calculate an amount of points, credits or other awards to be won by a player of
   gaming machine 100 when playing the base game. Base game pay-table data 402 may
20 be used to determine the amount won based on which combination of symbols appear
   on visual display unit 104. Base game pay-table data 402 may be related to symbol data
   401, as the amount won by a player as determined by the value of the symbols as stored
   in symbol data 401. Base game pay-table data 402 have a predetermined probability
   distribution as described below with reference to Figure 14. Base game pay-table data
25 402 may also store an award schedule for the awarding of meta-game awards. Base
   game pay-table data 402 may be static data that is programmed into memory 204
   during development.
   Meta-game pay-table data 403 may include data relating to the pay-table used in the
30 meta-game played on gaming machine 100. Pay-table data 403 may be used to
   calculate an amount of points, credits or other awards to be won by a player of gaming
   machine 100 when playing the meta-game. Pay-table data 403 may be used to
   determine the amount won based on which combination of symbols appear on visual
   display unit 104. Meta-game pay-table data 403 may be related to symbol data 401. In
35 some embodiments, meta-game pay-table data 403 may also be related to base game
   pay-table data 402, so that outcomes or winning events of the meta-game may be

                                              17
   related to outcomes or winning events of the base game. Meta-game pay-table data 403
   have a predetermined probability distribution as described below with reference to
   Figure 14.
 5 According to some embodiments, base game pay-table data 402 may be used to
   determine whether the player should be awarded a monetary reward, and meta-game
   pay-table data 403 may be used to determine whether a player should be awarded a
   non-monetary reward, based on the outcome of a game of chance presented on gaming
   machine 100. Processor 202 may be configured to access base game pay-table data 402
10 and meta-game pay-table data 403 and to compare the results of the game of chance
   with the pay table data to determine whether one or more monetary or non-monetary
   prizes should be awarded. According to some embodiments, the non-monetary prizes
   may include progressing through a meta-game task.
15 Meta-game task data 404 may include data relating to tasks to be completed by the
   player during a meta-game played on gaming machine 100. For example, meta-game
   task data 404 may include information about how many tasks a player needs to
   complete before they receive an award or obtain a particular level. Task data 404 may
   further include information about the symbol outcomes that may cause a task to be
20 determined to have been completed. In some embodiments, meta-game task data 404
   may be related to meta-game pay-table data 403, in order to allow the completion tasks
   to be completed based on outcomes as determined from the meta-game pay-table data
   403.
25 According to some embodiments, meta-game task data 404 may be used to determine
   whether the player should be awarded a non-monetary reward, based on the outcome of
   a game of chance presented on gaming machine 100. Processor 202 may be configured
   to access meta-game pay-table data 403 and to compare the results of the game of
   chance with the meta-game pay-table data 403 to determine whether the game outcome
30 results in progress in a meta-game task as defined by meta-game task data 404. For
   example, progress in the meta-game may be made when a certain combination of
   symbols are displayed in the game of chance. Once a pre-determined level of progress
   in a meta-game task has been completed, processor 202 may be configured to
   determine that the task has been completed, and to reward the player with a non
35 monetary reward.

                                                 18
   Meta-game task data 404 may also be related to location data 406 and character data
   405, as the specific tasks to be completed may depend on the location and character
   selected by the player. In some embodiments, meta-game task data 404 may relate to
   game theme or game scenario data as well as or instead of location data 406. The tasks
 5 may also be dependent on the current theme of the game. The theme of the game may
   change over the course of playing the game. For example, once a player has completed
   one or more meta-game objectives and the feature game in a particular map location
   (having a particular associated theme), the player may elect to move to another map
   location that has a different associated theme. In some alternative embodiments, the
10 theme and/or scenario of the game may be selectable by a player independent of or
   instead of the location.
   Character data 405 may include data relating to a character selected by a player for
   playing a game on gaming machine 100. Character data 405 may include information
15 about available characters including a character name, the appearance of the character,
   and initial skill levels of the character. In some embodiments, character data 405 may
   include data relating to the character selected by the player, and any modified attributes
   of the character, such as an increased level or increased skill set achieved through game
   play. The characters available in a particular game may be dependent on the theme of
20 the game. In some embodiments, the character may be an avatar or player persona with
   graphical representation. The avatar or player persona may be a human, animal,
   fictional being, vehicle, object, or other type of graphical representation in some
   embodiments.
25 Virtual location data 406 may include data relating to a virtual location selected by a
   player for playing a game on gaming machine 100. Virtual location data 406 may
   include information about available locations including a location name, one or more
   images of the location, and characteristics about the location. Virtual location data 406
   may be related to character data 405, as the available characters may depend on the
30 chosen location or vice versa. Virtual location data 406 may also be related to the meta
   game task data 404, as the tasks presented during the meta-game may depend on the
   location selected. Virtual location data 406 may further be related to the symbol data
   401, as the symbols presented during the base game may depend on the location
   selected. The current theme of a particular game may be dependent on the current
35 selected virtual location of the game. Alternatively, locations available in a particular
   game may be dependent on the theme of the game. In some embodiments, the virtual

                                                 19
   location may change based on a scenario selected by the player. In some embodiments,
   the same virtual location may be used in all or some of a number of game scenarios.
   Feature game map data 407 may include data relating to a map of a game play location
 5 for a feature game played on gaming machine 100. Feature game map data 407 may
   include information about the layout of a feature game location, including where game
   objects may be located within the virtual location. Feature game map data 407 may be
   related to virtual location data 406, as the feature game theme may be determined based
   on the virtual location selected or vice versa. Feature game map data 407 may further
10 be related to character data 405, as the feature game location may be determined based
   on the character selected, and the level of the character. Feature game map data 407
   may also be dependent on the current theme of the game.
   Feature game prize data 408 may include data relating to an amount of points, credits
15 or other awards to be won by a player of gaming machine 100 when playing the feature
   game. Feature game prize data 408 may include information about how many awards
   are to be included in the feature game, and where they should be located. Feature game
   prize data 408 may be related to feature game map data 407, in order to allow for the
   awards to be placed at various locations within the feature game location as defined by
20 feature game map data 407.
   In some embodiments, the game machine 100/304 may have an overall theme for all of
   the game play, plus a number of sub-themes for different parts or stages of base game
   play and/or meta-game play and/or feature game play.
25
   In some embodiments, code modules within game software module 231 may include
   base game module 411, meta-game module 412, feature game module 413, character
   generation module 414, virtual location generation module 415, feature game map
   generation module 416, and other code modules.
30
   Base game module 411 may be executable by processor 202 to cause a base game,
   which may be a reel-type game in some embodiments, to be displayed on visual display
   unit 104. The base game may be any chance-based game, in which random number
   generator 210 is used to generate a symbol sub-set, such as a two-dimensional array of
35 symbols, is randomly selected from a larger symbol set for display on visual display
   unit 104, with or without the appearance of spinning reels. According to some

                                                 20
   embodiments, random number generator 210 is used to determine the stopping position
   of each reel of a set of virtual reels for display on visual display unit 104. Each virtual
   reel may comprise a plurality of symbols, and reels may include in the order of 20, 40
   or 60 symbols in some embodiments. The symbol set from which the displayed symbol
 5 subset is randomly selected for the base game is sized to permit a reasonable degree of
   variation among the selected symbols across a significant number of instances of
   symbol sub-set generation. The symbol sub-set may include multiple instances of the
   same symbol. According to some embodiments, at least some symbols in each virtual
   reel may include an overlay symbol, as described below with reference to Figure 17.
10 According to some embodiments, the symbols in the symbol set may be free of overlay
   symbols, as described below with reference to Figures 8, 9 and 10. According to some
   embodiments, multiple instances of the same symbol may have different overlays, or
   the same overlay in some embodiments. According to some embodiments, the overlays
   may be distributed so that it is rare for multiple instances of the same overlay to be
15 presented. For example, where one of the overlay symbols is a gold star, it may be
   relatively rare to have an outcome containing five gold stars. Where the chance-based
   game is not a reel type game, a two-dimensional array of symbols may be randomly
   selected from a larger symbol set having a similar probabilistic distribution as that of
   the reel game described above.
20
   Base game module 411 may be executed when a player initiates game play using user
   input 218. Base game module 411 may allow a player to make a bet or wager using
   credit input mechanism 221, input mechanisms 106, and user input 218, and may
   determine a random game outcome using random number generator 210. Executing
25 base game module 411 may cause processor 202 to determine whether the player won
   any credits or other awards using base-game pay-table data 402. Processor 202 may
   then cause gaming machine 100 to credit the player with any winnings using payout
   mechanism 225.
30 Meta-game module 412 may be executable by processor 202 to cause a meta-game to
   be shown on visual display unit 104. In some embodiments, the meta-game may
   include a reel-based game, and may use the same reels as those used for the base game.
   The meta-game may be any chance-based game, in which random number generator
   210 is used to generate a symbol sub-set, such as a two-dimensional array of symbols,
35 is randomly selected from a larger symbol set for display on visual display unit 104
   with or without the appearance of spinning reels. According to some embodiments,

                                                21
   random number generator 210 is used to determine the stopping position of each reel of
   a set of virtual reels for display on visual display unit 104. The symbol set from which
   the displayed symbol subset is randomly selected for the meta-game is sized to permit a
   reasonable degree of variation among the selected symbols across a significant number
 5 of instances of symbol sub-set generation. The symbol sub-set may include multiple
   instances of the same symbol.
   In some embodiments, meta-game module 412 may be executed when a player initiates
   game play using user input 218. Meta-game module 412 may include a series of tasks
10 which must be completed. In some embodiments, the completion of the tasks is
   dependent on the appearance of certain symbols or combinations of symbols in a
   randomly generated symbol sub-set in the base game. For example, a particular symbol
   or combination of symbols appearing as part of the base game may contribute to the
   completion of a task. The base game and meta-game may therefore rely on the same
15 randomly generated symbol sub-set, although a winning symbol combination in the
   base game may not also be a winning symbol combination in the meta-game. In other
   words, the same symbol subset upon which the outcomes of the base game and meta
   game are based can lead to different results in each of the base game and meta-game.
   For example, a winning result in the base game may not correspond with a winning
20 result in the meta-game and vice versa.
   Additionally, according to some embodiments, while a winning result in the base game
   provides monetary reward, a winning result in the meta-game provides non-monetary
   reward, such as advancement of the player's character toward a character achievement
25 milestone, such as a level increase or a skill or attribute increase. The non-monetary
   rewards earned in the meta-game can lead to a greater prospect of earning monetary
   rewards in the skill-based feature game, as described below. In some embodiments, a
   winning result in the meta-game may additionally or alternatively lead to the direct
   award of a non-monetary reward, such as an aesthetic item or game influencing item
30 that can be applied to a character for use in the skill-based feature game, or an in-game
   currency that can be used to purchase aesthetic or game influencing items. An aesthetic
   item may affect the appearance of a character in a feature game or game of skill
   presented by gaming machine 100. Some examples of aesthetic items are shown in
   Figures 15A to 15B. A game influencing item may affect the performance of a
35 character in the feature game or game of skill presented by gaming machine 100. The
   game influencing item may be a consumable item that can only be used once in the

                                               22
   feature game or game of skill presented by gaming machine 100, such a potion,
   medicine, or ammunition. In some embodiments, the game influencing item may be an
   enduring item that can be used for the duration of the feature game or game of skill
   presented by gaming machine 100, such as a weapon or shield. Some examples of
 5 game-influencing items are shown in Figures 15A to 15B.
   The rules basis and paradigm for determining a winning outcome in the meta-game
   may be different from the rules and paradigm to determine a winning outcome in the
   base game. For example, a winning outcome in the meta-game may be due to the
10 appearance of one or more symbols of a predetermined subset of symbols among the
   randomly generated symbol subset, without necessarily relying on a combination of
   symbols being present in the symbol subset. Further, a winning outcome in the meta
   game may be due to the appearance of a symbol combination among the randomly
   generated symbol subset either along a payline, being a predetermined linear sequence
15 of symbols, or randomly throughout the displayed symbols. According to some
   embodiments, a winning outcome may also require one or more predetermined symbols
   to appear on adjacent reel positions, or randomly across all reels. Executing meta-game
   module 412 may cause processor 202 to determine whether the player completed a
   meta-game task using meta-game pay-table data 403. According to some alternative
20 embodiments, the rules basis and paradigm for determining a winning outcome in the
   meta-game may be the same as the rules and paradigm to determine a winning outcome
   in the base game, but may rely on a different set of symbol combinations predetermined
   as winning symbol combinations.
25 Feature game module 413 may be executable by processor 202 to cause a feature game
   to be shown on visual display unit 104. In some embodiments, the feature game may be
   a dungeon crawl or treasure hunt type game, where a player must navigate through a
   virtual location and interact with virtual objects, for example by battling foes, solving
   puzzles, or other sub-game activities, to win credits or other awards. In some
30 embodiments, feature game module 413 may cause a virtual location to be shown on
   visual display unit 104 based on feature game map data 407. Prizes may be distributed
   throughout the virtual location based on feature game prize data 408, and collection of
   a prize may be a winning event. In some embodiments, the prizes may be hidden in
   virtual chests, boxes or other objects that the player must open or otherwise interact
35 with in order to retrieve the prizes. In some embodiments, only some of the virtual
   chests, boxes or other objects will contain prizes. In some embodiments, a player may

                                               23
   need to solve puzzles, battle villains, or complete other tasks in order to obtain prizes.
   In some embodiments, the prizes may include either or both monetary and non
   monetary prizes.
 5 Character generation module 414 may be executable by processor 202 to cause one or
   more characters to be generated and displayed on gaming machine 100 for selection
   and/or modification by a player. In some embodiments, character generation may
   include a player being able to generate a unique character based on a number of
   configurable character attributes, such as character type (e.g. warrior, wizard, troll, elf
10 etc.) body shape, skin tone, hair colour, sex and clothing. In some alternative
   embodiments, pre-generated characters may be retrieved from character data 405 and
   displayed for a player to select. Selected character data may be stored in character data
   405.
15 Virtual location generation module 415 may be executed by processor 202 to cause one
   or more virtual locations to be generated and displayed on gaming machine 100 for
   selection by a player. In some embodiments, the one or more virtual locations may be
   displayed on a map. The virtual locations may be generated based on virtual location
   data 406.
20
   Feature game map generation module 416 may be executed by processor 202 to cause
   virtual location images to be generated and displayed on gaming machine 100 for
   playing the feature game. The feature game map may be generated based on feature
   game map data 407.
25
   Referring now to Figure 5, there is shown a flow diagram illustrating a method 500 of
   gaming by implementing a game at a gaming system, such as gaming machine 100
   illustrated in Figure 1 and gaming machines 304 illustrated in Figure 3.
30 The method 500 of gaming may comprise an initial step 501 of a player providing
   credit at credit input mechanism 221 of the gaming machine 100, and selecting a
   character for game play. In some embodiments, this may also include entering a name
   to be associated with the character. Processor 202 may execute character generation
   module 414, which may read from character data 405. The character may be selected
35 by scrolling through a series of available characters on the touchscreen display of
   gaming machine 100. In some embodiments, the character may be created by the player

                                                24
   by choosing from a number of different options for character components. For
   example, the player may be able to generate a character by selecting from various body
   shapes, facial features, hairstyles, and clothing for the character to have. The character
   created by the player may be stored in character data 405.
 5
   In some embodiments, the player may be able to select a previously created character
   that has been stored by the system in character data 405. In some embodiments, the
   player may be able to scan a ticket that stores data related to a previously created
   character. Gaming machine 100 may be configured to access data from a stored player
10 account or player profile based on the data read from the ticket. Processor 202 may
   retrieve the player account information based on a database lookup using the data read
   from the ticket.
   In some embodiments, each selectable character may have a number of predetermined
15 base attribute ratings stored in character data 405. For example, characters may have
   attributes such as strength, agility and speed. In some embodiments, different or
   additional attributes may exist. For example, in some embodiments, characters may
   have attributes such as wisdom, dexterity, and/or endurance. These attributes may be
   measured on a scale of 1 to 10, for example. Each character may have a base rating for
20 each attribute. A particular character may have a strength rating of 6, an agility rating
   of 3 and a speed rating of 4, for example. In some alternative embodiments, the
   attributes may be measured based on a different numerical scale (1 to 5, 1 to 20, or 1 to
   100, for example), or on a non-numerical scale, which might be a graphical
   representation of the attribute on a bar, a number of stars, or some other scale. The
25 character may also have a predetermined base level. In some embodiments, all
   characters start at base level 1.
   In some embodiments, the selected character may be able to be changed during
   gameplay using user input 218. If a character is changed, they may retain some or all of
30 the levels and skills of the previously selected character.
   In some embodiments, the player may also be able to select a virtual game play
   location from a map. Processor 202 may execute virtual location generation module
   415, which may read from virtual location data 405 to display images of a map
35 showing a number of selectable locations on visual display unit 104. For example, the
   selectable locations may include a forest, desert, castle, and/or swamp in some

                                                25
   embodiments. Virtual game play locations may be tailored to a general theme of the
   game. In some embodiments, the selection of the character may determine the virtual
   game play starting location. For example, selecting a knight character may result in
   game play beginning in a virtual castle, while selecting an elf may result in game play
 5 in a virtual forest, and selecting a troll may result in game play beginning in a virtual
   swamp.
   After a character selection has been made, in some embodiments a tutorial game may
   be presented to the player at step 502, based on predetermined selection criteria. In
10 some embodiments, the tutorial game may be a simulation of the feature game, or an
   aspect of the feature game. In some embodiments, the tutorial game may not allow the
   player to win any monetary rewards. In some embodiments, entry into the tutorial game
   may be determined based upon whether or not the player is a new player or an
   experienced player, the level of the player's character, how long it has been since the
15 player played the game last, or other criteria. In some embodiments, entry into the
   tutorial game may be at the election of the player. If the criteria for entering the tutorial
   game is met, the method moves to step 510, and a tutorial game is presented to the
   player.
20 The tutorial game may help a player become familiar with the controls used and
   gameplay style of the feature game, as described below. In some embodiments, the
   tutorial game may teach a player new tricks, skills or combinations that they can apply
   during the feature game. Once the tutorial game is over, the method moves to step 503.
   If the criteria is not met, a tutorial game is not played, and the method moves to step
25 503.
   According to some embodiments, the tutorial game may be presented to the player at
   various stages of game play, and not only at the start of gameplay. For example, in
   some embodiments the tutorial game may be presented to the player when their
30 character or avatar achieves a new level, learns a new skill or receives a new weapon.
   At step 503, a base game is implemented on gaming machine 100 by processor 202
   executing base game module 411. In some embodiments, the base game may be a reel
   game, which may be generated using symbol data 401. In some embodiments, the base
35 game may be a different chance based game in which symbols are randomly selected

                                                26
   from a symbol set for display on visual display unit 104, without the appearance of
   spinning reels.
   At step 504, a player causes an instance of base game module 411 to be initiated by
 5 processor 202, through interaction with user input 118. The amount bet by the player
   may be split up into two prize pools, being a base game prize pool, and a feature game
   prize pool. Some of the wager may also be kept by the house, being the business or
   establishment that owns and/or controls gaming machines 100/304. The amount kept
   by the house may be varied based on the regulatory rules in the jurisdiction the game is
10 being played in.
   As the base game is initiated, processor 202 may also initiate meta-game module 412
   based on meta-game task data 404. The meta-game may comprise a series of tasks to be
   completed by the player in order to allow a player to progress toward receiving an
15 aesthetic item or a game influencing item, or may allow for the direct award of non
   monetary prizes such as aesthetic and game influencing items to the player. Progress
   and completion of any tasks may be determined based on outcomes of the base game as
   determined with reference to meta-game pay-table data 403.
20 At step 505, base game module 411 is executed by processor 202 to cause a plurality of
   symbols derived from symbol data 401 to be selected by processor 202 for display at a
   plurality of display positions on a visual display unit 104. In some embodiments, where
   the base game is a reel game, base game module 411 may be executed by processor 202
   to cause the reels to appear to virtually spin on visual display unit 104. The selection of
25 the symbols may be performed randomly, for example by the random number generator
   414.
   In a further step 506, a game outcome is determined based on the randomly displayed
   symbols on the display.     The game outcome may consist of a base game outcome,
30 determined by processor 202 based on base game pay-table data 402, and a meta-game
   outcome determined by processor 202 based on meta-game pay-table data 403. The
   base game outcome may result in the awarding of a monetary prize to the player, based
   on the particular combination of symbols displayed. If a base game outcome results in
   the winning of a monetary reward, this may be credited to the player immediately in
35 some embodiments through payout mechanism 225. In some other embodiments, the
   amount won may be stored and accumulated during the game session, and the total

                                              27
   amount may be awarded at the end of the game session. The amount won may be taken
   out of the base game prize pool. The amount won may be awarded as cash, or as credits
   that can be redeemed for cash.
 5 The meta-game outcome may allow the player to progress towards and/or complete one
   or more tasks or quests set in the meta-game, as determined by meta-game module 412
   based on meta-game task data 404. The progress made toward the completion of each
   task may be displayed to the player in the form of a fraction, percentage, progress bar,
   or other means of showing the advancement through the task. If the meta-game
10 outcome results in the completion of all of the set tasks, the player level as stored in
   character data 405 may be increased. In some embodiments, some or all of the player
   attributes stored in character data 405 may also be increased. According to some
   embodiments, the awards available to a player on completion of the meta-game task
   may be a predetermined selection of awards. The actual award granted to the player
15 may be determined based on a set of award rules, or may be randomised in some
   embodiments. In some embodiments the award may be randomly selected from a
   subset of awards determined based on a set of award rules.
   In some embodiments, the meta-game outcome may alternatively or in addition allow a
20 player to achieve other rewards. This may be on the completion of all tasks within a
   quest, each time a task is completed, or simply based on the combination of symbols
   displayed during the game. In some embodiments, the meta-game outcome may allow a
   player to win a non-monetary reward, such as an aesthetic reward or game-influencing
   reward, that they can apply to their character. According to some embodiments, the
25 aesthetic rewards may include items of clothing, accessories, or the ability to change
   the hairstyle, hair colour, eye colour, or other elements of the appearance of their
   character. Game-influencing rewards may include consumables such as potions,
   ammunition, healing items, or other items that can each only be used once within the
   feature game, and are considered to be "used up" or consumed once they have been
30 used. Game-influencing rewards may also include feature-length items such as
   weapons, shields, or other items that may be used throughout the duration of the feature
   game.
   In some embodiments, the meta-game may also allow a player to win one or more units
35 of an in-game virtual currency as a form of non-monetary reward, which the player
   may later be able to use to purchase an aesthetic or game-influencing reward. For

                                               28
   example, a game may allow a player to win in-game credits, coins, jewels, tokens, or
   another form of virtual currency. Different aesthetic and game-influencing rewards may
   be able to be virtually purchased, and may each cost a different amount. For example, a
   cloak may cost 3 coins of in-game currency, a healing potion might cost 5 coins of in
 5 game currency, and a pair of boots that increases player speed may cost 10 coins of in
   game currency, in some embodiments. In some embodiments, the in-game currency is
   not transferrable for real currency or monetary credits that can be redeemed for real
   currency.
10 At step 507, processor 202 may determine whether a threshold has been reached that
   allows for entry into a feature game. In some embodiments, the entry to the feature
   game may be by a predetermined symbol combination appearing on the reels. In some
   alternative embodiments, entry to the feature game may be based on reaching a time
   based threshold (that the player has been playing the game for at least 5 minutes, 10
15 minutes, 15 minutes, 20 minutes, 25 minutes or 30 minutes, for example), a spend
   based threshold (that the player has spent a particular amount of money) or a games
   played threshold (that the player has played a particular number of base games).
   Multiple different threshold conditions may be applied in combination. In some
   embodiments, entry to a feature game may be semi-randomised after the threshold
20 condition has been met, for example where the entry is selected at random from a range
   in addition to or on top of the threshold. For example, for a given base spend threshold,
   such as 100 credits, entry into the feature game may occur at a randomly selected time
   between 5 minutes and 10 minutes after reaching the base spend threshold.
25 If the threshold has not been reached, game play returns to step 503, with processor 202
   causing base game module 411 to re-initiate and the player having a further opportunity
   to place a wager and play the base game.
   If the threshold has been reached, at step 508 the player is given the opportunity to
30 enter the feature game. If the player chooses not to enter the feature game, which may
   be to allow themselves time to meet more meta-game objectives, for example, the play
   returns to step 503, with processor 202 causing base game module 411 to re-initiate and
   the player having a further opportunity to place a wager and play the base game. In
   some embodiments, the player may be forced to enter the feature game after a
35 predetermined limit has been reached. For example, the player may be forced to enter
   the feature game after a predetermined amount of time, after a predetermined number

                                               29
   of base games have been played, once the player's character reaches a predetermined
   level, or after the player has spent a predetermined amount of money or credits, for
   example.
 5 If the player chooses to enter the feature game, the feature game is initiated at step 509
   by processor 202 executing feature game module 413. The feature game may be a skill
   based adventure game in some embodiments. In some alternative embodiments, the
   skill-based feature game may include an additional chance-based game.
10 Player attributes stored in character data 405 may contribute to the likelihood of
   success in the feature game, whether it be skill or chance based. For example, a
   character with higher strength rating may be more likely to succeed in certain actions in
   the feature game than a character with a lower strength rating (for example, breaking
   open a treasure chest).
15
   The feature game may allow the player to win both monetary and non-monetary prizes.
   The monetary prizes may be paid out of the feature game pool. Non-monetary prizes
   may include improvements to the visual appearance of the character, such as new
   hairstyles, clothing and accessories. In some embodiments, the non-monetary prizes
20 may also include direct or indirect improvements to the character's attribute ratings.
   For example, a non-monetary prize may be that the player's character's strength is
   increased by 10%. An example of an indirect improvement may be that the character
   receives boots that improve its speed, or gloves that improve its dexterity. The prizes
   (including monetary and non-monetary rewards) available in any feature game may be
25 determined by processor 202 based on feature game prize data 408.
   According to some embodiments, the feature game may include a "treasure hunt" type
   game, in which a player must navigate through a virtual environment and interact with
   virtual objects to gain rewards. For example, in some embodiments the player may
30 navigate through a dungeon-type environment, and open chests to gain rewards. Each
   chest may be predetermined to contain a monetary or non-monetary reward, or to be
   empty, for example. The player may navigate through the virtual environment using
   user input 218.

                                                30
   In some embodiments, the feature game may include an arena style battle game, a
   racing game, a first person shooter, or another type of game that allows a player to
   control one or more virtual objects or characters through one or more virtual scenarios.
 5 The theme of the virtual environment navigable during the feature game may depend
   on the virtual game play location selected at step 503, the game scenario, and/or
   character level. For example, if the player selected a knight character, the game play
   may take place in a castle. A level 1 knight may need to navigate through the dungeons
   of the castle, for example, while a level 2 knight may navigate through the servant's
10 quarters. A higher level knight, such as a level 8 knight, may need to navigate through
   the king's chamber. As the character progresses through the levels, the game play
   location may be altered appropriately. In some embodiments, the player may be able to
   select a particular virtual location for the feature game. The virtual environment for a
   particular virtual location may be pre-generated and stored in feature game map data
15 407.
   The feature game may run until a predetermined threshold is reached at step 510. This
   may be a time-based threshold, or an achievement based threshold, for example. Once
   this is reached, the game will be directed back to the base game at step 503 by
20 processor 202 re-initiating base game module 411.
   In some embodiments, the player may be able to end the game session at any point
   during gameplay. When the player ends the game session, any accumulated winnings
   may be paid out to the player, in the form of cash or credits using payout mechanism
25 225. In some embodiments, gaming machine 100 may also issue a ticket corresponding
   to the player's character in the game. For example, the ticket may store an
   identification number corresponding to an entry in a look-up table that stores data
   relating to the player character. The ticket may allow a player to load the character into
   the game at that player's next gaming session, as described above with reference to step
30 501. In some embodiments, the player may be able to use the ticket to upload their
   character into an online gaming environment. In some embodiments, only character
   aesthetics, and not attributes or items earned through playing the base game, may be
   transferrable. In some alternative embodiments, character ability ratings and other
   items such as weapons and shields, in addition to or instead of character aesthetics, may
35 be transferrable via the ticket. Players may also be able to transfer any unused in-game
   currency to the new game.

                                               31
   In some embodiments, instead of a ticket, character data may be stored in another form,
   such as using a QR code, smart card, magnetic stripe card, near field transfer, or
   another electronic or non-electronic means of data storage, that the player can use to
 5 store their character data to load their character into the game at their next gaming
   session.
   Figure 18 illustrates an alternative method 1800 of gaming by implementing a game at
   a gaming system, such as gaming machine 100 illustrated in Figure 1 and gaming
10 machines 304 illustrated in Figure 3.
   The method 1800 of gaming may comprise an initial step 1818 of processor 202
   executing code to generate a graphical display on video display 104 of gaming machine
   100/304 to prompt a player to indicate whether the player is a returning player or a new
15 player. The prompt may be in the form of a text-based question displayed on video
   display 104 of gaming machine 100/304, and may ask the player to respond by
   interacting with one or more user input components. For example, if the player is a
   returning player, the player may be able to scan a ticket or provide account information,
   such as a name and password, that stores data related to the player's account. Processor
20 202 may be configured to authenticate a user account based on the provided account
   information. Processor 202 may be configured to use the stored data to access a player
   database, which may be stored on gaming machine 100/304 or on an external device,
   such as a server 308/310, to retrieve any required game information, such as the
   player's avatar and level. If the player is a new player, the player may be able to
25 indicate this by clicking on a virtual button displayed on the prompt screen, for
   example.
   At step 1801, processor 202 determines the player's returning player status based on
   the user input received. If processor 202 determines that the player is a returning
30 player, processor 202 is configured to perform step 1805. If the player is determined to
   be a new player, processor 202 is configured to perform step 1802, which may
   comprise processor 202 generating a prompt to display to the player via video display
   104 of gaming machine 100/300, prompting a player to create a new account, which
   may require the player to use user input 218 to enter details such as an account name
35 and password, for example. According to some embodiments, processor 202 may be
   configured to cause video display 104 to present the player the option of not creating a

                                                32
   new account, and instead playing as a "guest", which would not require the player to
   enter any account information. According to some embodiments, gaming machine
   100/304 may be configured to operate without creating user accounts. In some
   embodiments, game play information may be written by processor 202 to a physical or
 5 virtual ticket, which the player may be able to use to store their progress in the game
   and to retrieve at least some of the player's past game progress, avatar development
   and/or equipment or other game items at the player's next gaming session.
   Processor 202 is configured to generate a prompt, and cause video display 104 of
10 gaming machine 100/300 to display the prompt asking the player to select a player
   class at step 1803. The class may be a character type, such as a warrior, hunter, rogue
   or mage, for example. At step 1804, processor 202 may be configured to generate and
   cause video display 104 of gaming machine 100/304 to display a prompt to ask the
   player to create a character. In some embodiments, processor 202 may also be
15 configured to generate and cause video display 104 of gaming machine 100/304 to
   display a prompt to enter a name to be associated with the character. Processor 202
   may execute character generation module 414, which may read from character data 405
   to retrieve character information and display the character on video display 104 of
   gaming machine 100/304. The character may be selected by scrolling through a series
20 of available characters on the touchscreen display of gaming machine 100. In some
   embodiments, the character may be created by the player by choosing from a number of
   different options for character components. For example, the player may be able to
   generate a character by selecting from various body shapes, facial features, hairstyles,
   and clothing for the character to have. The character created by the player may be
25 stored in the player's account information, and/or stored in a temporary memory
   location in memory 204, and may be printed or otherwise written to a physical or
   virtual ticket at the end of the session to allow the player to retrieve the player's saved
   character for a subsequent gaming session.
30 According to some embodiments, steps 1803 and 1804 may be performed in a single
   step. For example, according to some embodiments, processor 202 may be configured
   to automatically select a character based on the player selection of a class. In some
   alternative embodiments, processor 202 may be configured to generate graphical
   prompts for display on video display 104 to the player to select a character first, and
35 may automatically select a class based on a class associated with the chosen character.

                                               33
   Processor 202 is configured to implement a base game by executing base game module
   411 at step 1805. In some embodiments, the base game may be a reel game, which may
   be conducted by processor 202 executing base game module 411. Processor 202 may
   be configured to retrieve symbol data 401 for conducting the base game. In some
 5 embodiments, the base game may be a different chance-based game in which symbols
   are randomly selected from a symbol set for display on visual display unit 104, without
   the appearance of spinning reels. The player may cause an instance of base game
   module 411 to be initiated by processor 202, through interaction with user input 118.
   Base game module 411 is executed by processor 202 to cause a plurality of symbols
10 derived from symbol data 401 to be selected by processor 202 for display at a plurality
   of display positions on a visual display unit 104. In some embodiments, where the base
   game is a reel game, base game module 411 may be executed by processor 202 to cause
   the reels to appear to virtually spin on visual display unit 104. The selection of the
   symbols may be performed randomly, for example by the random number generator
15 414.
   As described above with reference to Figure 5, a game outcome is determined based on
   the randomly displayed symbols on the display. The game outcome may consist of a
   base game outcome, determined by processor 202 based on base game pay-table data
20 402, and a meta-game outcome determined by processor 202 based on meta-game pay
   table data 403. The base game outcome may result in the awarding of a monetary prize
   to the player, based on the particular symbols displayed. If a base game outcome results
   in the winning of a monetary reward, this may be credited to the player immediately in
   some embodiments through payout mechanism 225. In some other embodiments, the
25 amount won may be stored and accumulated during the game session, and the total
   amount may be awarded at the end of the game session. The amount won may be taken
   out of the base game prize pool. The amount won may be awarded as cash, or as credits
   that can be redeemed for cash.
30 The meta-game outcome may allow the player to progress towards and/or complete one
   or more tasks or quests set in the meta-game, as determined by meta-game module 412
   based on meta-game task data 404. The progress made toward the completion of each
   task may be displayed to the player in the form of a fraction, percentage, progress bar,
   or other means of showing the advancement through the task. If the meta-game
35 outcome results in the completion of all of the set tasks, the player level as stored in

                                                34
   character data 405 may be incremented. In some embodiments, some or all of the
   player attributes stored in character data 405 may also be incremented or increased.
   In some embodiments, the meta-game outcome may alternatively or in addition allow
 5 for additional rewards to be awarded to the player. Additional rewards may be awarded
   on the completion of all tasks within a quest, each time a task is completed, or simply
   based on the combination of symbols displayed during the game. In some
   embodiments, the meta-game outcome may allow for a reward that the player can apply
   to their character, such as an aesthetic reward or skill-based reward, to be awarded. In
10 some embodiments, processor 202 may be configured to award the player one or more
   units of an in-game virtual currency, which the player may later be able to use to
   purchase an aesthetic or skill based reward. For example, processor 202 may be
   configured to award in-game credits, coins, jewels, tokens, or another form of virtual
   currency. According to some embodiments, more than one different form of virtual
15 currency may be awarded during the meta-game, and the different forms of currency
   may be used to purchase different types of items. Different aesthetic and skill-based
   rewards may be able to be virtually purchased with the virtual currency, and may each
   cost a different amount. For example, a cloak may cost 3 coins, a healing potion might
   cost 5 coins, and a pair of boots that increases character or avatar speed may cost 10
20 coins, in some embodiments.
   At step 1806, processor 202 determines whether a trigger event has occurred that
   allows for entry into a feature game. In some embodiments, the trigger event may be a
   software event. According to some embodiments, the occurrence of the trigger event
25 may be indicated to the player visually through video display 104 by the display of a
   predetermined symbol or symbol combination on the game display, for example on the
   reels. In some embodiments, as described above with respect to Figure 5, the trigger
   event may be configured to only occur after the player reaches a time-based threshold,
   a spend-based threshold, or a games-played threshold. According to some
30 embodiments, the trigger event may be configured to occur at a random or pseudo
   random time within a set time period after the player reaches a time-based threshold, a
   spend-based threshold, or a games-played threshold. For example, the trigger event
   may be configured to occur at a random time within a set time period after the player
   reaches a time-based threshold, which may be a time limit of 5, 10 or 15 minutes, for
35 example. According to some embodiments, the trigger event may be configured to have
   a predetermined probability of occurring within a predetermined time period. For

                                               35
   example, the trigger event may be configured to have an 80% probability of occurring
   within 5 minutes after a games-played threshold is reached, for example.
   Until the trigger event occurs, game play continues at step 1805, with processor 202
 5 causing base game module 411 to continue play and the player having a further
   opportunity to place a wager and play the base game.
   If the trigger event occurs, at step 1807, processor 202     may optionally cause video
   display 104 to present an inventory screen to allow the player the opportunity to edit
10 the player's inventory before entering the feature game. For example, the inventory
   screen may display virtual items owned by the player, such as weapons and potions.
   Processor 202 may be configured to display the virtual inventory items, and provide the
   player with an opportunity to purchase new items or discard existing items from the
   inventory. Once the player is satisfied with the contents of the inventory, processor 202
15 may receive input from the player to exit the inventory page, and in response, processor
   202 may cause video display 104 of gaming machine 100/300 to optionally display a
   pre-battle screen at step 1808, which may allow a user to make any final character
   adjustments before entering the feature game, such as upgrading weapons or shields,
   using potions or other special items.
20
   According to some embodiments, the pre-battle screen may be displayed before the
   inventory screen. According to some embodiments, only one of the pre-battle screen
   and the inventory screen may be displayed. According to some embodiments, one or
   more of the pre-battle screen and the inventory screen may be displayed for a limited
25 predetermined time period. Once the predetermined time period expires, processor 202
   may cause the method to automatically progress to the next step.
   According to some embodiments, some selections made on the pre-battle screen may
   be modified during the feature game. For example, a player may be able to select a
30 different weapon to use mid-way through the feature game, in some embodiments.
   When a player indicates using user input 218 that the player is satisfied with the pre
   battle selections, or the pre-determined time period has expired, the feature game is
   initiated at step 1809 by processor 202 executing feature game module 413. The feature
35 game may be a skill-based adventure game in some embodiments. The feature game

                                                36
   may be a battle, treasure hunt, first person shooter, quest, or other type of skill-based
   game, as described above with reference to Figure 5.
   Gaming machine 100/3034 may cause the feature game to run until a predetermined
 5 threshold, triggering event or end event is reached. Once the feature game ends, at step
   1810 video display 104 of gaming machine 100/300 may optionally display a post
   battle screen, which may present the player with the ability to use any virtual credits
   earned during the course of the feature game, for example.
10 After viewing the post-battle results, at step 1810 video display 104 of gaming machine
   100/300 may optionally display an achievements screen such as screen 1700 as shown
   in Figure 17 or screen 1800 as shown in Figure 18, which may display statistics about
   the game play during the feature game, achievements earned and prize money won.
   After viewing achievements, processor 202 may cause video display 104 to present the
15 inventory screen again at step 1812 according to some embodiments, to give the player
   the opportunity to edit the inventory associated with the player's avatar. After display
   of the inventory screen, the sequence of gameplay reverts to step 1805 where processor
   202 causes gaming machine 100/304 to present the player with the base game again via
   video display 104.
20
   A specific example of the methods 500 and 1800 of gaming are described below with
   reference to screenshots of the display of the gaming system 100 shown in Figures 6 to
   13, 17 and 19 to 21.
25 Figure 6 is an example screenshot of a character selection screen 600 of gaming
   machine 100, as generated by character generation module 414 based on information
   read by processor 202 from character data 405. Screen 600 shows a message 601
   instructing a player of gaming machine 100 to select a character. A number of
   characters 602 may be displayed for selection. Each character has a character type
30 descriptor 604 (such as warrior, hunter, rogue or mage, for example). The player may
   scroll through the characters using user input 218. As the player scrolls through the
   available characters 602, one character may appear as the "selected" character 603 at
   any given time. The selected character 603 is shown as being in front of unselected
   characters 602, and is shown highlighted by virtual markings 606. The name of the
35 selected character 605 may appear bigger, in a different colour, or otherwise
   distinguishable from the names of the unselected characters 604. Once the player has

                                                37
   scrolled to their desired character, they may use user input 218 to confirm their
   selection and exit the character selection page.
   Figure 7 is an example screenshot of a virtual location selection screen 700 of gaming
 5 machine 100, as generated by virtual location generation module 415 based on
   information read by processor 202 from virtual location data 406. Screen 700 displays
   a message 701 instructing a player of gaming machine 100 to select a location. A
   number of locations 702 are displayed for selection. Each location has a location name
   or descriptor 704. The player may be able to scroll through the locations using user
10 input 218. As the player scrolls through the available locations 702, one location may
   appear as the "selected" location 703 at any given time. The selected location is shown
   highlighted by virtual markings 706. The name of the selected location 705 may appear
   bigger, in a different colour, or otherwise distinguishable from the names of the
   unselected locations 704. Once the player has scrolled to their desired location, they
15 may use user input 218 to confirm their selection and exit the location selection page.
   Figure 8 is an example screenshot of a base game screen 800 of gaming machine 100,
   as generated by base game module 411 based on information read by processor 202
   from symbol data 401. Screen 800 displays a game title 801 and symbol sets 802 for a
20 base game. Symbol sets 802 are described in further detail below with reference to
   Figures 9 and 10. Screen 800 also displays a selected character 803, and credit, bet and
   win meters 804 which may display an amount of credit that a player has, an amount
   bet, and an amount won in a particular gaming session. Selected character 803 may be a
   character selected by the player using character selection screen 600. Screen 800 may
25 have a map selection virtual button 805, which may be used to go back to virtual
   location selection screen 700. Screen 800 also shows level indicator 806 and quest log
   807. Level indicator 806 and quest log 807 are described in further detail below with
   reference to Figures 11 to 12C.
30 Figure 9 is a detailed view 900 of symbol sets 802. Symbol sets 802 display a number
   of symbols as generated by processor 202 based on symbol data 401. The symbols may
   include pictorial symbols, such as treasure chest symbol 901, torch symbol 902, and
   sword symbol 905 as well as alphanumeric symbols, such as A symbol 903 and              Q
   symbol 904. In some embodiments, the alphanumeric symbols may correspond to cards
35 from a standard deck of cards, such as Ace and Queen for A and       Q  respectively. The
   symbol sets 802 displayed may be used by processor 202 to determine whether a

                                              38
   monetary and/or non-monetary prize should be awarded, by comparing the symbols
   displayed with those in base game pay-table data 402 and meta-game pay-table data
   403.
 5 An example base game pay table is shown below as Table 1, where each of the
   amounts shown in the table may correspond to credits that will be won by the player
   based on the appearance of the predetermined symbol combination.
                                      Number of Symbols required
                      Symbol       5x         4x         3x         2x
                      WC
                      PICi     1,000       500        100        5
                      PIC2     500         200        10         2
                      PIC3     250         100        10
                      PIC4     200         80         10
                      A        200         50         10
                      K        200         50         10
                      Q        150         20         10
                      J        150         20         10
                      10       100         15         5
                      9        100         15         5          2
                      SCAT     100         20         5          2
10                                         Table 1
   According to some embodiments, PIC 1 may be treasure chest symbol 901, PIC 2 may
   be torch symbol 902, PIC 3 may be sword symbol 905 and PIC 4 may be a shield
   symbol (not shown).
15
   An example meta-game pay-table for non-monetary prizes that may be awarded during
   the meta-game based on the appearance of the predetermined symbol combination is
   shown below as Table 2:
                                             Number of Symbols
      Symbol                5x                        4x                      3x
   J             e   10-15 Fragments      *    5-10 Fragments        e 1-5 Fragments
                 *   150-200 Gold         0    100-150 Gold          0 20-100 Gold
                 .  3 Bronze Quest Ticks  e    2 Bronze Quest Ticks  e 1 Bronze Quest Tick

                                                39
   Q              *  2x Discards             e   1x Discards             e   1x Discards
                  *  150-200 Gold            *   100-150 Gold            0   20-100 Gold
                  *  3 Silver Quest Ticks    *   2 Silver Quest Ticks    *   1 Silver Quest Tick
   K              *  Skill Card (Rare)       *   Skill Card (standard)   *   Skill Card (standard)
                  *  300-500 Gold            *   250-300 Gold            *   200-250 Gold
                  *  3 Gold Quest Ticks      e   2 Gold Quest Ticks      *   1 Gold Quest Tick
                                              Table 2
   The table shows both direct non-monetary prizes (e.g. an amount of gold, or a skill
 5 card) as well as meta-game progress awards (e.g. gold quest ticks) that may be awarded
   based on a particular combination of symbols appearing during the chance based game.
   According to some embodiments, meta-game task data 404 may store relationships
   between the meta-game progress awards and the non-monetary rewards that may be
10 awarded to a player on completion of a quest. One example of a set of meta-game task
   data 404 that may be used to determine the non-monetary rewards to award a player
   based on the meta-game progress awards that they have been awarded is shown below
   in Table 3. The meta-game progress awards may have been awarded to the player based
   on the appearance of a predetermined symbol combination as shown above in Table 2,
15 for example.
   Quest                           Requirement                      Reward
   A                               15 Bronze Quest Ticks            300 Gold, 1 Fragment
   B                               30 Bronze Quest Ticks            400 Gold, 1 Fragment
   C                               15 Silver Quest Ticks            7500 Gold, 1 Discard
   D                               15 Gold Quest Ticks              2x Skill Cards
   E                               50 Bronze Quest Ticks            3x Skill Cards, 1500 Gold
                                             Table 3
   An alternative example meta-game pay-table is described below with reference to
20 Figure 17.

                                               40
   Figure 10 is an example screenshot of a base game screen 1000 of gaming machine 100
   showing a winning pay-line 1005 as determined by processor 202 based on base game
   pay-table data 402. The winning pay-line may appear on symbol sets 802 when the
   player of gaming machine 100 places a bet and causes symbol sets 802 to generate a set
 5 of symbols for display. Four treasure chest symbols 901 are shown intersecting the
   winning pay-line 1005. The remaining symbols, including symbols 902, 903 and 904
   are shown not intersecting the winning pay-line. The winning pay-line may result in the
   player winning an amount of cash, credits, or other awards from gaming machine 100.
   In some embodiments the winning pay-line 1005 may also result in progress in the
10 meta-game as described in further detail below with reference to Figures 11 to 12C, or
   in the reward of non-monetary prizes, based on meta-game pay table data 403.
   Figure 11 is a detailed view 1100 of quest log 807. Quest log 807 tracks a players
   progression through a meta-game, as controlled by meta-game module 412 based on
15 information from meta-game task data 404, during the play of the base game displayed
   on symbol sets 802. Quest log 807 shows a number of quests 1101, described as tasks
   to be completed during the meta-game. The tasks may be tailored to the character, the
   game scenario and/or the virtual location of the game selected by the player. For
   example, if a farm location is selected, tasks may include "Defeat 10 boars", "Defend
20 village", and "Repair farmhouse", for example. Each task may be displayed next to a
   symbol 1102. In some embodiments, the symbols displayed may correspond to symbols
   of the symbol sets 802, and may be related to the symbols that need to appear on
   symbol sets 802 in order to complete the tasks. Meta-game pay table data 403 may be
   used to determine whether a particular symbol combination contributes to progress in a
25 meta-game task.
   The tasks or quests may include a progress meter 1103, which may show how many
   more successful symbol appearances are required until the task is completed. Processor
   202 may determine what amounts to a successful symbol appearance based on meta
30 game pay-table data 403. For example, in the illustrated embodiment, each task
   requires 10 successful symbol appearances to become completed. The "Defend 10
   Boars" task has been completed 3 times out of a required 10 times. The "Defend
   village" and "Repair farmhouse" tasks have been completed 5 and 8 times out of a
   required 10 times, respectively. In some embodiments, once each or all of the quests
35 have been completed, the player's character may be caused to move up a level, acquire
   an increased set of abilities or attributes, or receive an aesthetic or game-influencing

                                               41
   item. In some embodiments, the player may alternatively or in addition be able to move
   up a level, acquire an increased set of abilities or attributes, or receive aesthetic or
   game-influencing    items during the playing of the feature game, by completing
   objectives or earning points during the feature game.
 5
   Figure 19 is an example screenshot of a base game screen 1900 of gaming machine 100
   showing a pop-up quest log 1902, as generated by base game module 411 based on
   information read by processor 202 from symbol data 401. Pop-up quest log 1902 may
   be a temporary display portion overlaid on the main display screen. According to some
10 embodiments, pop-up quest log 1902 may be displayed only when progress is made on
   the meta-game, as described above with reference to Figure 11. Pop-up quest log may
   be displayed for a pre-determined period of time after progress is made. In some
   embodiments, pop-up quest log 1902 may also or instead be displayed in response to
   another game event, or in response to receipt of user input.
15
   Screen 1900 displays a first credit meter 1901, a second credit meter 1902, game time
   1903 and symbol sets 1907 for a base game. According to some embodiments, play of
   the meta-game may result in the player being awarded two different forms of virtual
   currency or credit, as displayed by meters 1901 and 1902. According to some
20 embodiments, the different credit types may be used to purchase different types of
   items, as described below with reference to Figures 20 and 21. Symbol sets 1907 may
   include alpha-numeric symbols 1908 as well as pictorial symbols 1909. Screen 1900
   also displays a selected character 1905 on a background 1904, and credit, bet and win
   meters 1910, 1911 and 1912 which may display an amount of credit that a player has,
25 an amount to be bet in the next game, and an amount won in a particular gaming
   session. Selected character 1905 may be a character selected by the player using
   character selection screen 600.
   A special symbol 1913 is shown as being activated, which may indicate that a software
30 based trigger event has occurred causing processor 202 to initiate the feature game. In
   some alternative embodiments, the appearance of special symbol 1913 may cause
   progresses of at least one quest game as shown in pop-up quest log 1914. Pop-up quest
   log 1014 displays a progress indicator 1915 for each of a plurality of quests. The
   progress indicator 1915 may show a number of special symbols required for
35 completion of the quest, and how many of these special symbols have already been
   acquired.

                                              42
   Figure 12A is a detailed view of quest log 807, showing a task being completed. The
   "Defeat 10 boars" task 1201 is highlighted, as 10 of the 10 required successful symbol
   appearances    have been achieved.     Incomplete tasks 1202        are not highlighted.
 5 According to some embodiments, a player may be able to access a prize table or in
   game rule screen to see which symbol combinations they require to complete each
   displayed task.
   Figure 12B is a detailed view of level indicator 806. Level indicator 806 shows a
10 current level 1203 of the player's character, which is Level 1 in the illustrated
   embodiments. Level indicator 806 also shows a progress bar 1204, showing how much
   more progress is required in the meta-game and/or in the feature game before the
   character reaches the next level. Level indicator 806 also displays the next level 1205
   for the character to achieve.
15
   Figure 12C shows an example screenshot of symbol sets 802 showing a winning
   combination of symbols 1206 as determined by processor 202 based on meta-game
   pay-table data 403, highlighting a winning meta-game combination. Symbols that are
   not part of the winning combination, such as symbols 1207, are not highlighted. Based
20 on the combination of symbols that appear on symbol sets 802, processor 202
   determines, based on meta-game pay-table data 403, whether the symbol combinations
   are winning combinations. A winning combination may result in one or more tasks
   1101 (i.e. meta-game objectives) being completed in some embodiments, or progress
   being made towards the completion of one or more tasks. In some embodiments, a
25 winning combination may result in the direct award of in-game currency, aesthetic
   rewards or game-influencing rewards.
   According to some embodiments, processor 202 may be configured to display multiple
   inventory screens on gaming machine 100 prior to entry into the feature game, to allow
30 the player to purchase consumable and persistent items to use in the feature game.
   Figure 20 is an example screenshot of a first inventory game screen 2000 of gaming
   machine 100 that allows players to purchase persistent items that they can apply to the
   player's character or avatar. Once a persistent item has been purchased, it will exist in
   the player's inventory indefinitely. According to some embodiments, persistent items
35 may be linked to a player's account, so that the persistent items are available to a player
   even when the player starts a new gaming session on a new gaming machine 100,

                                               43
   provided the player logs into the player's account on that machine. According to some
   embodiments, the persistent items may only be available for a single gaming session.
   Screen 2000 shows the player avatar 2001. According to some embodiments, as the
 5 player selects items to equip the player's character or avatar with, processor 202 may
   be configured to virtually place the items as a preview on avatar 2001 so that the player
   can see what the avatar would look like with the item equipped. Screen 2000 also
   shows a page selector 2002 including a number of pages of items a player can purchase
   or select. Gaming machine 10/304 may be configured to show the currently selected
10 page 2003 as highlighted, with unselected pages 2004 appearing not highlighted. Each
   page may relate to a category of available items, and the title of the selected page may
   be displayed as title 2005. For example, in the illustrated embodiment, the "head" page
   is selected, which may relate to items worn on the avatar's head. Other categories may
   include upper body, lower body, hands, feet, and weapons, for example.
15
   On each page, a number of items 2006 and 2007 are displayed that a player can
   purchase or add to the player's game inventory. For example, according to the
   illustrated embodiments, two different helmets 2006 and 2007 are shown. Item 2006
   represents an item that the player has previously purchased or been awarded, and is
20 available in the player's inventory for the player to selectively apply to the avatar 2001.
   Item 2107 represents an item available for purchase by the player. A cost 2008 of the
   item is displayed to the player, indicating how much credit is required to purchase the
   item. When the player selects an item 2006 or 2007, a description 2109 of the item may
   be displayed on screen 120. If the player elects to apply the item to avatar 2001, the
25 player may equip the item by activating virtual continue button 2010. Processor 202
   may be configured to store the item data to the player account when user input
   indicating that the player has equipped an item is received.
   Screen 2000 also displays first credit meter 1901, and second credit meter 1902.
30 According to some embodiments, only the first type of credit, as shown by meter 1901,
   may be used to purchase the persistent items as displayed on screen 2000. If a player
   makes a virtual purchase on screen 2000, processor 202 may be configured to
   decrement the credit indicator 1901 by the cost of the virtual purchase. For example, if
   the cost of helmet 2007 is 150 virtual credits as indicated by cost 2008, then when a
35 player purchases helmet 2007, processor 202 subtracts 150 virtual credits from the
   player's virtual credit amount as indicated by credit indicator 1901.

                                                 44
   Once a player has made all of the desired selections, the player may activate virtual
   button 2011 to save the outfit. Once saved, the selection of items that make up the
   outfit may be automatically loaded onto avatar 2001 each time the player starts the
 5 feature game. The player may activate a virtual "next screen" button 2012 to proceed
   to the next screen, which may be           second inventory game screen 2100 in some
   embodiments.
   Figure 21 is an example screenshot of a second inventory game screen 2100 of gaming
10 machine 100, that allows players to purchase consumable items that are only available
   for use for a limited period before expiring, such as during the feature game. According
   to some embodiments, once a consumable item has been purchased, it will be available
   for use only in one subsequent feature game. Once the feature game is over, processor
   202 is configured to remove the item from the player's virtual inventory, even if the
15 item was not used by the player. Screen 2100 shows a number of items a player can
   purchase or add to their inventory, including skills or attributes that can be applied to
   their avatar, represented by cards 2101, 2102 and 2103, as well as potions 2111. A
   player may be able to purchase an item by selecting the item and then activating
   purchase button 2115. According to the illustrated embodiments, avatar abilities are
20 represented by cards, while consumable items ae represented by potions. According to
   some embodiments, different virtual items may be used to represent player abilities and
   consumables, such as skill "certificates", pages of a spell book, pills, wearable items, or
   other representations.
25 Screen 2100 includes a plurality of images of two-sided cards 2101, 2102 and 2103,
   with cards 2101 being face side up and cards 2102 and 2103 being back side up, with
   the content on the face of cards 2102 and 2103 being concealed. Cards 2101 relate to
   cards that have been purchased, selected or revealed by the player, and relate to one or
   more special skills or attributes that a player can apply to the player avatar during a
30 feature game. The face of each card may include a cost 2104 of selecting and revealing
   the card, one or more symbols 2105 relating to the type of the card, an image 2106
   relating to the skill or attribute that the card represents, and a title 2107 of the skill or
   attribute.
35 Cards 2102 and 2103 represent cards that have not yet been purchased or revealed by
   the player, and show only a cost 2108 for purchasing and revealing the card. Card 2102

                                                 45
   shows a card that is currently selected, as shown by the card being visually emphasised
   with respect to the other elements, such as by being slightly raised with respect to the
   virtual background. According to some embodiments, the card type and the skill
   represented by an unflipped card may be unknown to the player. A player may take a
 5 chance in purchasing the card in the hope that it represents a desirable skill. In some
   embodiments, a player may be able to see the face side of the card before electing
   whether or not to purchase the card and the represented skill or attribute.
   Screen 2100 also shows a discard indicator 2109 which shows how many card discards
10 a player can make, and second credit meter 1902 which shows how much of the second
   virtual credit type is available to a player. According to some embodiments, the second
   type of virtual credit may only be used to purchase consumable items, and not
   persistent items. If a player reveals a card 2101 which the player does not desire, the
   player can elect to discard it and be dealt a new card. According to some embodiments,
15 a player may be given only a limited number of discards, so that each time the player
   elects to discard a card 2101, the number shown on discard indicator 2109 is
   decremented. If a player makes a virtual purchase on screen 2000, processor 202 may
   decrement second credit meter 1902 by the cost of the virtual purchase. For example, if
   the cost of card 2101 is 35 virtual credits as indicated by cost 2104, then when a player
20 purchases card 2101, 35 virtual credits are subtracted from the player's virtual credit
   amount as indicated by second credit meter 1902.
   Screen 2100 further shows one or more consumable items in the form of potions 2111
   that can be purchased by a player for use during the feature game. Each potion may
25 have a cost 2112, a symbol 2113 and a quantity 2114. Symbol 2113 may indicate the
   type of potion, as well as the amount of potion being purchased. For example, symbol
   2113 may be differently shaped for different effects, such as a differently shaped bottle
   depending on whether the potion is a health potion, a strength potion, an invisibility
   potion, or another type of portion. Symbol 2113 may show a full bottle to show a full
30 dose of a potion, or a half full bottle if the potion is only half a dose, which may only
   have half the effect on the player's avatar during the feature game. The quantity 2114
   shows the number of the particular potion that the player has already purchased and has
   in the player's inventory.

                                               46
   Once a player has made all of the player's desired purchases, the player may activate
   virtual button 2116 to proceed, which may cause processor 202 to display a feature
   game on gaming machine 100/304.
 5 Figure 13 is an example screenshot of a feature game screen 1300 of gaming machine
   100. Screen 1300 includes a character information display portion, including an image
   of the character 1301, the character name 1302, an indication of the character's health
   1303, an indication of the character's experience 1304, and a number of points
   achieved by the player 1305. Screen 1300 also shows a countdown timer 1306 showing
10 the time remaining for a player to navigate through the virtual environment in order to
   collect rewards before the feature game ends. In some embodiments, the feature game
   may end when timer 1306 runs out, or when the player's health 1303 runs out,
   whichever occurs first. The amount of rewards collected by the player is shown by
   reward meter 1307. Messages may be displayed to a player playing the feature game
15 using message bar 1308. As the player navigates character 1310 through the virtual
   environment shown using user input 218, the character may interact with objects in the
   environment, such as treasure chests 1309 or other reward-triggering objects. Opening
   treasure chests 1309 may allow the player to accumulate rewards, points or other
   awards. In some embodiments, the rewards may be transferrable for cash or credits at
20 the end of the game. In some embodiments, chests 1309 may contain non-monetary
   rewards, such as clothing, weapons, or other modifications to the character 1310. In
   some embodiments, the player may also be able to win further monetary or non
   monetary rewards by interacting with other characters or objects in the feature game,
   such as by fighting bosses, villains or monsters, opening locks or doors, tripping traps,
25 or solving puzzles, for example.
   Figure 14 shows a graph 1400 illustrating an example probability distribution that may
   be implemented by gaming machine 100 to balance the probabilities of a player
   receiving monetary and non-monetary prizes, as described above. Non-monetary axis
30 1401 shows the probability distribution for winning or not winning non-monetary
   prizes, based on win section 1402 and loss section 1403. Monetary axis 1404 shows the
   probability distribution for winning or not winning monetary prizes, based on win
   section 1405 and loss section 1406. Sections 1402, 1403, 1405 and 1406 divide graph
   1400 into areas 1407, 1408, 1409 and 1410. Area 1407 corresponds to the probability
35 distribution of a player winning both a monetary and a non-monetary prize. Area 1408
   corresponds to the probability distribution of a player winning a monetary prize, but not

                                               47
   winning a non-monetary prize. Area 1409 corresponds to the probability distribution of
   a player winning a non-monetary prize, but not a monetary prize. Area 1410
   corresponds to the probability distribution of a player winning neither a monetary nor a
   non-monetary prize.
 5
   Areas 1407 and 1408 correspond to monetary wins for the player, which increase
   player satisfaction, but require gaming machine 100 to award a monetary reward from a
   prize pool. The ratio between winning outcomes and non-winning outcomes for
   monetary rewards must be balanced based on meeting the regulatory standards for a
10 minimum retum-to-player as well as ensuring that the gaming machine is profitable. In
   gaming machines with only monetary rewards, this may result in players feeling like
   they do not win often enough, causing dissatisfaction with the game. However, gaming
   machine 100 or 300 is configured to also allow for non-monetary rewards to be won in
   the context of a hybrid skill and chance-based gaming environment, allowing player
15 satisfaction to be increased while not affecting the profitability of the gaming machine.
   Areas 1407 and 1409 of graph 1400 correspond to non-monetary wins for the player,
   which increase player satisfaction, but do not require gaming machine 100 to award a
   monetary reward from a prize pool.
20 Probability distribution 1411 of graph 1400 is an example of a probability distribution
   of game outcomes over time on gaming machine 100 or 300 that may be implemented
   by base game pay table data 402 and meta-game pay table data 403. Probability
   distribution 1411 defines an inverse relationship between the awarding of non
   monetary prizes and monetary prizes, so that a player is most likely to either win a
25 monetary prize but not a non-monetary prize, or a non-monetary prize but not a
   monetary prize, as shown by the large intersections between areas 1408 and 1409 with
   probability distribution 1411. Players are less likely to win both a monetary prize and a
   non-monetary prize, or to win neither a monetary nor a non-monetary prize, as shown
   by the small intersection between areas 1407 and 1410 with probability distribution
30 1411. As seen in graph 1400, there is a relatively low probability that a player wins
   nothing, as shown by the intersection between area 1410 and probability distribution
   1411, which results in a game where the player is likely to feel that they are successful,
   and will wish to continue playing.
35 Probability distribution 1411 shown in graph 1400 is only one example of a distribution
   that may be implemented by gaming machine 100 or 300, and the exact shape and size

                                                48
   of probability distribution 1411 may be varied to alter the probabilities of a player
   winning monetary and non-monetary prizes. For example, if probability distribution
   1411 were to take up the whole graph 1400, the probability of the player winning a
   monetary prize would be 50%, and the probability of the player winning a non
 5 monetary prize would also be 50%, such that the probability of the player winning both
   a monetary prize and a non-monetary prize, or of winning neither prize, would be 25%
   each. In some embodiments, probability distribution 1411 may be shifted. If probability
   distribution 1411 is shifted to the left and up, a player may be more likely to win both a
   monetary prize and a non-monetary prize, and less likely to not win either prize. If
10 probability distribution 1411 is shifted to the left and down, a player may be more
   likely to win a non-monetary prize, and less likely to win a monetary prize.
   The size and shape of probability distribution 1411 may also be altered, such as by
   being more circular, or in a horse-shoe or U-shape, for example. Probability
15 distribution 1411 need not be symmetrical or curved in shape, and may be a triangle,
   square, rectangular, or other shape. The exact shape and dimensions of probability
   distribution 1411 may be determined based on the desired operating characteristics of
   gaming machine 100. The intersection of probability distribution 1411 with monetary
   award-winning areas 1407 and 1408 may first be determined based on regulatory
20 requirements, and a desired profitability of gaming machine 100 or 300. Subsequently,
   the intersection of probability distribution 1411 with non-monetary award-winning
   areas 1409 and 1410 may be determined to allow for a higher player satisfaction
   through the award of non-monetary prizes.
25 Figures 15A to 15B show a character with varying types of aesthetic and game
   influencing items.
   Figure 15A shows a character 1500 that may be a basic character according to some
   embodiments. The basic character may be a character that a player is given at the start
30 of a game, having the lowest level in the game. The character may be wearing some
   basic aesthetic items such as a hood 1501, tights 1502 and boots 1503. The character
   may additionally have some basic game-influencing items, such as staff 1504.
   Figure 15B shows a character 1520 that has additional aesthetic items that may have
35 been won as a non-monetary reward by a player during play of the meta-game, as
   described above with reference to Figure 5. In some embodiments, character 1500 may

                                                49
   transform into character 1520 when character 1500 reaches a particular level, based on
   progress in the meta-game or feature game. Character 1520 has a different style of
   hood 1521, and is also wearing a tunic 1522, pants 1523 and shoes 1524. These
   aesthetic items do not influence the abilities of character 1520. Character 1520 is using
 5 the same staff as character 1500, being staff 1504.
   Figure 15C shows a character 1540 that has additional aesthetic and game-influencing
   items that may have been won as a non-monetary reward by a player during play of the
   meta-game, as described above with reference to Figure 5. In some embodiments,
10 character 1520 may transform into character 1540 when character 1520 reaches a
   particular level, based on progress in the meta-game or feature game. Character 1540
   has a different style of hood 1541, tunic 1542, pants 1543 and shoes 1544. These
   aesthetic items do not influence the abilities of character 1540. Character 1540 is also
   carrying a different staff to characters 1500 and 1520, being staff 1545. According to
15 some embodiments, staff 1545 may be a game-influencing item that may give character
   1540 increased abilities, such as increased strength or reflexes when fighting. Character
   1540 additionally has a knife 1546, which may be a game-influencing item that the
   player can use for increased abilities when fighting in close combat with an opponent.
20 Hood 1541, tunic 1542, pants 1543, shoes 1544, staff 1545 and knife 1546 are further
   examples of non-monetary rewards that can be won during game play in the base game,
   the meta-game and/or the feature game.
   Figure 16 shows a chart 1600 of the various pathways for winning monetary and non
25 monetary prizes via a gaming environment 1601 presented on gaming machine
   100/300. According to some embodiments, from gaming environment 1601, a player
   can play both a chance based game 1602 and a skill based game 1603. Chance based
   game 1604 may allow a player to win monetary rewards 1604 based on the outcome of
   the game through base game pay-table data 403, as described above with reference to
30 Figure 8. Chance based game 1602 may also allow a player to make meta-game
   progress 1605 based on the outcome of the game, or to win direct non-monetary
   rewards 1606, based on meta-game pay-table data 403, as described below with
   reference to Figure 17. The meta-game progress 1605 may contribute toward the
   completion of in-game tasks or quests or other meta-game objectives, and the
35 completion of a task, quest or other meta-game objective may allow a player to win a
   direct non-monetary reward 1606.

                                                50
   Non-monetary rewards 1606 may include in-game currency 1607, aesthetic items 1608,
   game influencing items 1609 and consumable items 1610. In game currency 1607 may
   be used by a player to purchase one or more of an aesthetic item 1608, game
 5 influencing item 1609 or consumable item 1610.
   Skill based game 1603 may allow a player to win monetary rewards 1606 based on the
   outcome of the game. Skill based game 1603 may also allow a player to win direct non
   monetary rewards 1606. As described above, non-monetary rewards 1606 may include
10 in-game currency 1607, aesthetic items 1608, game influencing items 1609 and
   consumable items 1610.
   Figure 17 is an example screenshot of a base game screen 1700 of gaming machine
   100, as generated by base game module 411 based on information read by processor
15 202 from symbol data 401. Screen 1700 displays a symbol set 802 for a base game, as
   described in further detail above with reference to Figures 8 to 10. Screen 1700 also
   displays a selected character 803, and credit, bet and win meters 804 which may
   display an amount of credit that a player has, an amount bet, and an amount won in a
   particular gaming session. Selected character 803 may be a character selected by the
20 player using character selection screen 600, as shown in Figure 6. Screen 1700 also
   shows level indicator 806, which shows a current level (being level 19 in the illustrated
   embodiment) along with a bar graph showing the level of progress to the next level
   (being level 20 in the illustrated embodiment). Level indicator 806 is described in
   further detail above with reference to Figures 11 to 12C.
25
   Figure 17 shows character skill bar 1701, which may show the character's strength,
   agility, speed, or other characteristics. Figure 17 also shows the character name, level
   and type in character summary 1705. In the illustrated embodiment, the character is a
   level 19 mage, and the character name is Mortimer Finn. The character name may be
30 selected by the player, randomly generated, or tied to the player type.
   Figure 17 shows a number of overlay symbols 1702, 1703 and 1704 that may be used
   to determine the results of a meta-game based on meta-game pay-table data 403. In the
   illustrated embodiment, overlay symbols include gold stars 1702, silver stars 1703 and
35 bronze stars 1704. According to some embodiments, the appearance and arrangement
   of the overlay symbols may be used to determine the outcome of the meta-game. The

                                              51
   outcome may be determined based on the position of the overlay symbols with respect
   to one another, and/or the position of the overlay symbols with respect to symbol sets
   802.
 5 An example pay-table for non-monetary prizes that may be awarded during the meta
   game based on the appearance of a predetermined overlay symbol combination is
   shown below as Table 4:
                                             Number of Symbols
      Symbol                  5x                        4x                       3x
   Bronze Star    *  10-15 Fragments       e   5-10 Fragments         *  1-5 Fragments
                  *  150-200 Gold          0 100-150 Gold             0  20-100 Gold
                  *  3 Bronze Quest Ticks  o 2 Bronze Quest Ticks     o  1 Bronze Quest Tick
   Silver Star    *  2x Discards           *   1x Discards            0  1x Discards
                  *  150-200 Gold          0 100-150 Gold             0  20-100 Gold
                  *  3 Silver Quest Ticks  *   2 Silver Quest Ticks   e  1 Silver Quest Tick
   Gold Star      *  Skill Card (Rare)     *   Skill Card (standard)  o  Skill Card (standard)
                  *  300-500 Gold          *   250-300 Gold           *  200-250 Gold
                  *  3 Gold Quest Ticks    e   2 Gold Quest Ticks     *  1 Gold Quest Tick
                                            Table 4
10
   The table shows both direct non-monetary prizes (e.g. an amount of gold, or a skill
   card) as well as meta-game progress awards (e.g. gold quest ticks) that may be awarded
   based on a particular combination of overlay symbols appearing during the chance
   based game.
15
   According to some embodiments, meta-game task data 404 may store relationships
   between the meta-game progress awards and the non-monetary rewards that may be
   awarded to a player on completion of a quest. One example of a set of meta-game task
   data 404 that may be used to determine the non-monetary rewards to award a player
20 based on the meta-game progress awards that they have been awarded is shown below
   in Table 5. The meta-game progress awards may have been awarded to the player based
   on the appearance of a predetermined overlay symbol combination as shown above in
   Table 4, for example.
   Quest                           Requirement                    Reward

                                                52
   A                               15 Bronze Quest Ticks           300 Gold, 1 Fragment
   B                              30 Bronze Quest Ticks            400 Gold, 1 Fragment
   C                               15 Silver Quest Ticks           7500 Gold, 1 Discard
   D                               15 Gold Quest Ticks             2x Skill Cards
   E                              50 Bronze Quest Ticks            3x Skill Cards, 1500 Gold
                                              Table 5
   It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
   modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, without departing
 5 from the broad general scope of the present disclosure. The present embodiments are,
   therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.
   While the foregoing description has been provided by way of example of the preferred
   embodiments as presently contemplated, which utilise gaming machines of the type
10 found in casinos, those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that described
   embodiments also may have application to internet gaming and/or have application to
   gaming over a telecommunications network, where mobile handsets are used to display
   game outcomes and receive player inputs. Such mobile devices include smart phones,
   notebooks, tablets, iPads and laptop computers. For instance free mobile device games
15 may be offered for download and play on a player's personal mobile device as a bonus
   game play. In some embodiments, these downloads may be made available on a server
   accessible via an internet connection. In some embodiments, gaming machine 100/304
   may comprise a communication interface to enable interaction and data transfer
   between the personal mobile devices and gaming machine 100/304, to allow downloads
20 from gaming machine 100/304 to the personal mobile device. The communication
   interface may be a wireless interface in some embodiments.
   Further embodiments may enable a player to upload the outcome of a game or bonus
   game to a social media site(s), post tournament scores etc.
25
   Certain steps in the processes or process flows described in this disclosure naturally
   precede others for the embodiments to function as described. However, embodiments
   are not limited to the order of the steps described if such order or sequence does not

                                                53
   alter the functionality of the described embodiments. That is, it is recognized that some
   steps may performed before, after, or parallel (substantially simultaneously with) other
   steps without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In some
   instances, certain steps may be omitted or not performed. Further, words such as
 5 "thereafter", "then", "next", etc. are not intended to limit the order of the steps. These
   words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the exemplary
   method.
   In one or more exemplary aspects, the functions described may be implemented in
10 hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software,
   the functions may be stored on or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a
   computer-readable medium. Computer-readable media include both computer storage
   media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a
   computer program from one place to another.
15
   A storage media may be any available media that may be accessed by a computer. By
   way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media may comprise
   RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage
   or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that may be used to carry or
20 store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may
   be accessed by a computer.
   Also, any connection is properly termed a computer-readable medium. For example, if
   the software is transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a
25 coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, digital subscriber line ("DSL"), or wireless
   technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic
   cable, twisted pair, DSL, or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and
   microwave are included in the definition of medium.

                                               54
   CLAIMS:
   1.     A gaming machine for awarding monetary and non-monetary rewards, the
   gaming machine comprising:
 5        a display;
          a memory;
          at least one input mechanism configured to receive user input from a player; and
          a game controller configured to access and execute instructions stored in the
   memory to:
10               present at least one game of chance on the display;
                 determine a winning event for the at least one game of chance;
                 present at least one game of skill on the display;
                 determine a winning event for the at least one game of skill;
                 based on a winning event of the game of chance, determine whether the
15 player should be awarded a non-monetary reward; and
                 based on a winning event of the game of skill, determine whether the
   player should be awarded a monetary reward.
   2.     The gaming machine of claim 1, wherein the game controller is configured to
20 access at least one monetary pay table to determine whether the player should be
   awarded a monetary reward.
   3.     The gaming machine of claim 2, wherein the game controller is configured to
   determine whether the player should be awarded a monetary reward by comparing one
25 or more symbols generated by the game of chance with the at least one monetary pay
   table.
   4.     The gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the game controller is
   configured to access at least one non-monetary pay table to determine whether the
30 player should be awarded a non-monetary reward.
   5.     The gaming machine of claim 4, wherein the game controller is configured to
   determine whether the player should be awarded a non-monetary reward by comparing
   one or more symbols generated by the game of chance with the at least one non
35 monetary pay table.

                                                 55
   6.      The gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the non-monetary
   reward affects at least one aspect of a subsequent game of skill.
   7.      The gaming machine of claim 6, wherein the non-monetary reward is an
 5 aesthetic item that affects the appearance of a player avatar in the subsequent game of
   skill.
   8.      The gaming machine of claim 6, wherein the non-monetary reward is a game
   influencing item that affects the performance of a player avatar in the subsequent game
10 of skill.
   9.      The gaming machine of claim 8, wherein the game influencing item is a
   consumable item that can be used only once in the subsequent game of skill.
15 10.     The gaming machine of claim 8, wherein the game influencing item is an
   enduring item that can be used for the duration of the subsequent game of skill.
   11.     The gaming machine of claim 6, wherein the non-monetary reward is at least
   one unit of in-game currency.
20
   12.     The gaming machine of claim 11, wherein in-game currency can be used to
   purchase aesthetic and game influencing items.
   13.     The gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the non-monetary
25 reward contributes to progress toward the completion of a game task.
   14.     The gaming machine of claim 13, wherein the completion of the game task
   results in receiving an aesthetic item that affects the appearance of a player avatar in the
   subsequent game of skill.
30
   15.     The gaming machine of claim 13, wherein the completion of the game task
   results in receiving a game influencing item that affects the performance of a player
   avatar in the subsequent game of skill.
35 16.     The gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the game of chance
   is a reel game.

                                                56
   17.     The gaming machine of claim 16, wherein the awarding of a non-monetary
   award is determined based on whether one or more predetermined reel symbols appear
   on the reel game.
 5
   18.     The gaming machine of claim 16 or claim 17, wherein the awarding of a
   monetary award is determined based on whether one or more predetermined reel
   symbols appear on the reel game.
10 19.     The gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 18, wherein the gaming machine
   is configured to award monetary and non-monetary prizes based on a predetermined
   probability distribution.
   20.     The gaming machine of claim 19, wherein the probability distribution creates an
15 inverse relationship between the probabilities of winning a monetary prize and a non
   monetary prize.
   21.     The gaming machine of claim 19 or claim 20, wherein the probability
   distribution creates a higher chance of winning only one of a monetary prize and a non
20 monetary prize compared to the chance of winning both of a monetary prize and a non
   monetary prize or neither of a monetary prize nor a non-monetary prize.
   22.     The gaming machine of any one of claims 19 to 21, wherein the probability
   distribution creates a higher chance of winning at least one of a monetary prize and a
25 non-monetary prize compared to the chance of winning neither a monetary prize nor a
   non-monetary prize.
   23.     The gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein the controller is
   further configured to store the monetary award in the memory, and generate an
30 indication of the monetary award configured to be displayed on the display.
   24.     A method of determining monetary and non-monetary prizes to be awarded, the
   method comprising:
           presenting at least one game of chance on a display of a gaming machine;
35         determining a winning event for the at least one game of chance;
           presenting at least one game of skill on the display;

                                               57
           determining a winning event for the at least one game of skill;
           based on a winning event of the game of chance, determining whether a player
   should be awarded a non-monetary reward; and
                 based on a winning event of the game of skill, determining whether a
 5 player should be awarded a monetary reward.
   25.     The method of claim 24, further comprising accessing at least one monetary pay
   table to determine whether the player should be awarded a monetary reward.
10 26.     The method of claim 25, further comprising determining whether the player
   should be awarded a monetary reward by comparing one or more symbols generated by
   the game of chance with the at least one monetary pay table.
   27.     The method of any one of claims 24 to 26, further comprising accessing at least
15 one non-monetary pay table to determine whether the player should be awarded a non
   monetary reward.
   28.     The method of claim 27, further comprising determining whether the player
   should be awarded a non-monetary reward by comparing one or more symbols
20 generated by the game of chance with the at least one non-monetary pay table.
   29.     The method of any one of claims 24 to 28, wherein the non-monetary monetary
   reward affects at least one aspect of a subsequent game of skill.
25 30.     A computer-readable medium storing machine-readable instructions, which
   when executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform the method of any one
   of claims 24 to 29.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/21

                                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
!               "   !                   "
        (                   #
                                                                  '
%           "       %   "           "
        (
                                                                               2/21
$           "       $   "           "
    )                                       &   "   "        &    "
            )                   "

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/21

                                             <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                +   "   +
                                        $)                "
                                                      '
*   "       +                                             " -
                +       ,           &
                                                      (
                                                                         4/21
        *                       +
        $)                  &                     "

                    5/21
<removed-date>
                    .            )
                                           1
              2/.
<removed-apn>
                                     34
                        !    "
                    .
              34            0)    )
                                 ) 1
                                  '
                                     2/.
              34             /
                                           1
                                     (
                                         2/.
                    /
                                     #
                    /

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/21

                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
'
                    '        '
    '                                            '
        '
    '
                                                       7/21
            '
                '
                        '

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
(
                  (
          (                   (        (
                                                 8/21
    (
    ( '
                              (
              (

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
#               #
        #
(
                                 #
    #
                                           9/21
                    (
            #

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
    #
                        (
                                #
#
                            #
                                    10/21
        (

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/21
              ( '

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                          '
              (
    ( '
          !
                                             12/21
(
          *
                    $           (

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             '
                     #
                               13/21
(

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
'
                 (
                               14/21
#

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                   15/21
!   *                 $

                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             6
    $)                               .,
+        "
                     5           +
                                                                     16/21
             7
                 '
                     !   )                        $
                             (            #

                            <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
    '                   '
            '                                 (
                (
(
                                                           17/21
                                                     '
                '                        (
        '           '

                                    18/21
<removed-date>
              (
                                    2/.                 1           34
                                                (
<removed-apn>
                                                            $
                                    (                                (
                                                                .
                           34
                                            1                        (
                                    (
                                        2/.
                                /        6                  $                )
                                        ( '                              (
                                    +
                                    ( (
                                        ( #
                                        +
                                        (
                  /    6
                      (
                                ! ) 6
                                    (
                                                    (

                                    <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
#
                                        #        #           #
    #
                                                              # #
                                                                    19/21
    #                                                         #
        #   #         #             #                #
                              # (
                # '
                          #

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     #      #
(
    '
                                       20/21
        #

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           #
                          #
                              (
'
                                  21/21

