                             ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
       The present disclosure provides a heterodimeric, conditionally active chimeric
antigen receptor (CAR), and a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the
CAR. The present disclosure provides cells genetically modified to produce the CAR. A
CAR of the present disclosure can be used in various methods, which are also provided.

                 CHIMERIC ANTIGEN RECEPTOR AND METHODS OF USE THEREOF
                                          CROSS-REFERENCE
[0001] This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014216130, which is the Australian
       National Phase of PCT/US2014/016527 filed 14 February 2014, which claims priority from
       U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. US61/765,585 filed 15 February 2013. The
       contents of each application listed in this paragraph are fully incorporated by reference herein.
                     STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH
[0002] This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. EYO 16546 and
       GM101782 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights
       in the invention.
           INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF SEQUENCE LISTING PROVIDED AS A TEXT FILE
[0003] A Sequence Listing is provided herewith as a text file, "UCSF-464WO SeqListST25.txt"
       created on February 13, 2014 and having a size of 153 KB. The contents of the text file are
       incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
                                             INTRODUCTION
[0004] In cell-based adoptive immunotherapy, immune cells isolated from a patient can be
       modified to express synthetic proteins that enable the cells to perform new therapeutic
       functions after they are subsequently transferred back into the patient. An example of such a
       synthetic protein is a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). An example of a currently used
       CAR is a fusion of an extracellular recognition domain (e.g., an antigen-binding domain), a
       transmembrane domain, and one or more intracellular signaling domains. Upon antigen
       engagement, the intracellular signaling portion of the CAR can initiate an activation-related
       response in an immune cell, such are release of cytolytic molecules to induce tumor cell
       death, etc. However, such CARs are not capable of being pharmacologically controlled.
       There is a need in the art for a conditionally activatable CAR that can be controlled
       pharmacologically.
                                                SUMMARY
[0005] The present disclosure provides a heterodimeric, conditionally active chimeric antigen
       receptor (CAR), and a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the CAR.
                                                     1

       The present disclosure provides cells genetically modified to produce the CAR. A CAR of
       the present disclosure can be used in various methods, which are also provided.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006] Figures 1A and 1B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #122.
[0007] Figures 2A and 2B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #123.
[0008] Figures 3A and 3B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #125.
[0009] Figure 4 provides nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of construct #126.
[0010] Figures 5A and 5B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #168.
[0011] Figures 6A-C provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of construct
       #169.
[0012] Figures 7A and 7B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #170.
[0013] Figures 8A and 8B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #197.
[0014] Figures 9A-C provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of construct
       #206.
[0015] Figures 10A and lOB provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #207.
[0016] Figures 11 A-C provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of construct
       #199.
[0017] Figure 12 depicts IL-2 production triggered by five On-switch CAR variants.
[0018] Figure 13 depicts IL-2 production by control Jurkat lines.
[0019] Figure 14 depicts a comparison between CAR constructs "122 + 206" and "197 + 206".
[0020] Figure 15 depicts cytotoxicity data with the On-switch CAR "197+206."
[0021] Figure 16 depicts T cell activation data using CAR constructs "122 + 199"; "197 + 199";
       and "122 + 168."
[0022] Figure 17 is a schematic representation of an exemplary On-switch CAR.
[0023] Figures 18A and 18B depict various exemplary On-switch CAR.
                                                  2

[0024] Figures 19A-G depict IL-2 production triggered by 3 different On-switch CAR variants
       recognizing human mesothelin.
[0025] Figures 20A-C depict IL-2 production triggered by an On-switch CAR variant with a
       gibberellic acid responsive dimerization pair.
[0026] Figures 21A-D depict exemplary On-switch CARs and conventional CARs with various co
       stimulatory domains.
[0027] Figures 22A and 22B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #270.
[0028] Figures 23A and 23B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #300.
[0029] Figures 24A and 24B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #336.
[0030] Figures 25A and 25B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #337.
[0031] Figures 26A and 26B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #357.
[0032] Figures 27A and 27B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #365.
[0033] Figures 28A and 28B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #366.
[0034] Figures 29A and 29B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #367.
[0035] Figures 30A and 30B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #398.
[0036] Figures 3 1A and 3 1B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #399.
[0037] Figures 32A and 32B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #400.
[0038] Figures 33A and 33B provide nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the domains of
       construct #358.
                                           DEFINITIONS
[0039] The terms "polynucleotide" and "nucleic acid," used interchangeably herein, refer to a
       polymeric form of nucleotides of any length, either ribonucleotides or
                                                 3

       deoxyribonucleotides. Thus, this term includes, but is not limited to, single-, double-, or
       multi-stranded DNA or RNA, genomic DNA, cDNA, DNA-RNA hybrids, or a polymer
       comprising purine and pyrimidine bases or other natural, chemically or biochemically
       modified, non-natural, or derivatized nucleotide bases.
[0040] The terms "antibodies" and "immunoglobulin" include antibodies or immunoglobulins of
       any isotype, fragments of antibodies which retain specific binding to antigen, including, but
       not limited to, Fab, Fv, scFv, and Fd fragments, chimeric antibodies, humanized antibodies,
       single-chain antibodies, and fusion proteins comprising an antigen-binding portion of an
       antibody and a non-antibody protein.
[0041] "Antibody fragments" comprise a portion of an intact antibody, for example, the antigen
       binding or variable region of the intact antibody. Examples of antibody fragments include
       Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2, and Fv fragments; diabodies; linear antibodies (Zapata et al., Protein Eng.
       8(10): 1057-1062 (1995)); single-chain antibody molecules; and multispecific antibodies
       formed from antibody fragments. Papain digestion of antibodies produces two identical
       antigen-binding fragments, called "Fab" fragments, each with a single antigen-binding site,
       and a residual "Fc" fragment, a designation reflecting the ability to crystallize readily.
       Pepsin treatment yields an F(ab') 2 fragment that has two antigen combining sites and is still
       capable of cross-linking antigen.
[0042] "Single-chain Fv" or "sFv" antibody fragments comprise the VH and VL domains of
       antibody, wherein these domains are present in a single polypeptide chain. In some
       embodiments, the Fv polypeptide further comprises a polypeptide linker between the VH
       and VL domains, which enables the sFv to form the desired structure for antigen binding.
       For a review of sFv, see Pluckthun in The Pharmacologyof Monoclonal Antibodies, vol.
       113, Rosenburg and Moore eds., Springer-Verlag,New York, pp. 269-315 (1994).
[0043] As used herein, the term "affinity" refers to the equilibrium constant for the reversible
       binding of two agents and is expressed as a dissociation constant (Kd). Affinity can be at
       least 1-fold greater, at least 2-fold greater, at least 3-fold greater, at least 4-fold greater, at
       least 5-fold greater, at least 6-fold greater, at least 7-fold greater, at least 8-fold greater, at
       least 9-fold greater, at least 10-fold greater, at least 20-fold greater, at least 30-fold greater,
       at least 40-fold greater, at least 50-fold greater, at least 60-fold greater, at least 70-fold
       greater, at least 80-fold greater, at least 90-fold greater, at least 100-fold greater, or at least
       1000-fold greater, or more, than the affinity of an antibody for unrelated amino acid
       sequences. Affinity of an antibody to a target protein can be, for example, from about 100
       nanomolar (nM) to about 0.1 nM, from about 100 nM to about 1 picomolar (pM), or from
                                                     4

       about 100 nM to about 1 femtomolar (fM) or more. As used herein, the term "avidity" refers
       to the resistance of a complex of two or more agents to dissociation after dilution. The terms
       "immunoreactive" and "preferentially binds" are used interchangeably herein with respect
       to antibodies and/or antigen-binding fragments.
[0044] The term "binding" refers to a direct association between two molecules, due to, for
       example, covalent, electrostatic, hydrophobic, and ionic and/or hydrogen-bond interactions,
       including interactions such as salt bridges and water bridges. Non-specific binding would
       refer to binding with an affinity of less than about 10-7 M, e.g., binding with an affinity of
        10-' M, 10 M, 10-4 M, etc.
[0045] As used herein, the term "hinge region" refers to a flexible polypeptide connector region
       (also referred to herein as "hinge" or "spacer") providing structural flexibility and spacing
       to flanking polypeptide regions and can consist of natural or synthetic polypeptides. A
       "hinge region" derived from an immunoglobulin (e.g., IgGI) is generally defined as
       stretching from Glu 2 16 to Pro2 3 0 of human IgGI (Burton (1985) Molec. Immunol., 22:161
       206). Hinge regions of other IgG isotypes may be aligned with the IgGI sequence by
       placing the first and last cysteine residues forming inter-heavy chain disulfide (S-S) bonds
       in the same positions. The hinge region may be of natural occurrence or non-natural
       occurrence, including but not limited to an altered hinge region as described in U.S. Pat. No.
       5,677,425. The hinge region can include complete hinge region derived from an antibody of
       a different class or subclass from that of the CHI domain. The term "hinge region" can also
       include regions derived from CD8 and other receptors that provide a similar function in
       providing flexibility and spacing to flanking regions.
[0046] An "isolated" polypeptide is one that has been identified and separated and/or recovered
       from a component of its natural environment. Contaminant components of its natural
       environment are materials that would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the
       polypeptide, and may include enzymes, hormones, and other proteinaceous or
       nonproteinaceous solutes. In some embodiments, the polypeptide will be purified (1) to
       greater than 90%, greater than 95%, or greater than 98%, by weight of antibody as
       determined by the Lowry method, for example, more than 99% by weight, (2) to a degree
       sufficient to obtain at least 15 residues of N-terminal or internal amino acid sequence by use
       of a spinning cup sequenator, or (3) to homogeneity by sodium dodecyl sulfate
       polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) under reducing or nonreducing conditions
       using Coomassie blue or silver stain. Isolated polypeptide includes the polypeptide in situ
       within recombinant cells since at least one component of the polypeptide's natural
                                                     5

       environment will not be present. In some instances, isolated polypeptide will be prepared by
       at least one purification step.
[0047] As used herein, the term "immune cells" generally includes white blood cells (leukocytes)
       which are derived from hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) produced in the bone marrow.
       "Immune cells" includes, e.g., lymphocytes (T cells, B cells, natural killer (NK) cells) and
       myeloid-derived cells (neutrophil, eosinophil, basophil, monocyte, macrophage, dendritic
       cells).
[0048] "T cell" includes all types of immune cells expressing CD3 including T-helper cells (CD4+
       cells), cytotoxic T-cells (CD8+ cells), T-regulatory cells (Treg) and gamma-delta T cells.
[0049] A "cytotoxic cell" includes CD8+ T cells, natural-killer (NK) cells, and neutrophils, which
       cells are capable of mediating cytotoxicity responses.
[0050] As used herein, the term "stem cell" generally includes pluripotent or multipotent stem
       cells. "Stem cells" includes, e.g., embryonic stem cells (ES); mesenchymal stem cells
       (MSC); induced-pluripotent stem cells (iPS); and committed progenitor cells (hematopoeitic
       stem cells (HSC); bone marrow derived cells, etc.).
[0051] As used herein, the terms "treatment," "treating," and the like, refer to obtaining a desired
       pharmacologic and/or physiologic effect. The effect may be prophylactic in terms of
       completely or partially preventing a disease or symptom thereof and/or may be therapeutic
       in terms of a partial or complete cure for a disease and/or adverse effect attributable to the
       disease. "Treatment," as used herein, covers any treatment of a disease in a mammal, e.g., in
       a human, and includes: (a) preventing the disease from occurring in a subject which may be
       predisposed to the disease but has not yet been diagnosed as having it; (b) inhibiting the
       disease, i.e., arresting its development; and (c) relieving the disease, i.e., causing regression
       of the disease.
[0052] The terms "individual," "subject," "host," and "patient," used interchangeably herein, refer
       to a mammal, including, but not limited to, murines (e.g., rats, mice), lagomorphs (e.g.,
       rabbits), non-human primates, humans, canines, felines, ungulates (e.g., equines, bovines,
       ovines, porcines, caprines), etc.
[0053] A "therapeutically effective amount" or "efficacious amount" refers to the amount of an
       agent, or combined amounts of two agents, that, when administered to a mammal or other
       subject for treating a disease, is sufficient to effect such treatment for the disease. The
       "therapeutically effective amount" will vary depending on the agent(s), the disease and its
       severity and the age, weight, etc., of the subject to be treated.
                                                     6

[0054] Before the present invention is further described, it is to be understood that this invention is
       not limited to particular embodiments described, as such may, of course, vary. It is also to
       be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
       embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting, since the scope of the present
       invention will be limited only by the appended claims.
[0055] Where a range of values is provided, it is understood that each intervening value, to the
       tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise, between the
       upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated
       range, is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller
       ranges may independently be included in the smaller ranges, and are also encompassed
       within the invention, subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where
       the stated range includes one or both of the limits, ranges excluding either or both of those
       included limits are also included in the invention.
[0056] Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
       meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
       belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described
       herein can also be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, the preferred
       methods and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are
       incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the methods and/or materials in
       connection with which the publications are cited.
[0057] It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms "a,"
       "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus,
       for example, reference to "a chimeric antigen receptor" includes a plurality of such chimeric
       antigen receptor and reference to "the dimerizer-binding pair" includes reference to one or
       more dimerizer-binding pairs and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art, and
       so forth. It is further noted that the claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element.
       As such, this statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive
       terminology as "solely," "only" and the like in connection with the recitation of claim
       elements, or use of a "negative" limitation.
[0058] It is appreciated that certain features of the invention, which are, for clarity, described in the
       context of separate embodiments, may also be provided in combination in a single
       embodiment. Conversely, various features of the invention, which are, for brevity, described
       in the context of a single embodiment, may also be provided separately or in any suitable
       sub-combination. All combinations of the embodiments pertaining to the invention are
                                                     7

       specifically embraced by the present invention and are disclosed herein just as if each and
       every combination was individually and explicitly disclosed. In addition, all sub
       combinations of the various embodiments and elements thereof are also specifically
       embraced by the present invention and are disclosed herein just as if each and every such
       sub-combination was individually and explicitly disclosed herein.
[0059] The publications discussed herein are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing
       date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the
       present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention.
       Further, the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication dates
       which may need to be independently confirmed.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0060] The present disclosure provides a heterodimeric, conditionally active chimeric antigen
       receptor (CAR), and a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the CAR.
       The present disclosure provides cells genetically modified to produce the CAR. A CAR of
       the present disclosure can be used in various methods, which are also provided.
       HETERODIMERIC, CONDITIONALLY ACTIVE CHIMERIC ANTIGEN RECEPTOR.
[0061] The present disclosure provides a heterodimeric, conditionally active chimeric antigen
       receptor, which, for simplicity, is referred to herein as "CAR."
[0062] In some embodiments, a CAR of the present disclosure comprises: a) a first polypeptide
       comprising: i) a member of a specific binding pair (e.g., an antigen-binding domain); ii) a
       first modulatory domain; iii) a first member of a dimerization pair; and iv) a transmembrane
       domain interposed between the member of a specific binding pair (e.g., an antigen-binding
       domain) and the first modulatory domain; and b) a second polypeptide comprising: i) a
       transmembrane domain; ii) a second modulatory domain; iii) a second member of the
       dimerization pair; and iv) an intracellular signaling domain. The modulatory domain can be
       a co-stimulatory domain.
[0063] In some embodiments, a CAR of the present disclosure comprises: a) a first polypeptide
       comprising: i) a member of a specific binding pair (e.g., an antigen-binding domain); ii) a
       first co-stimulatory domain; iii) a first member of a dimerization pair (e.g., a dimerizer
       binding pair); and iv) a transmembrane domain interposed between the member of a specific
       binding pair (e.g., an antigen-binding domain) and the first co-stimulatory domain; and b) a
       second polypeptide comprising: i) a transmembrane domain; ii) a second co-stimulatory
                                                    8

       domain; iii) a second member of the dimerization pair (e.g., the dimerizer-binding pair); and
       iv) an intracellular signaling domain.
[0064] In some embodiments, a CAR of the present disclosure comprises: a) a first polypeptide
       comprising: i) a member of a specific binding pair (e.g., an antigen-binding domain); ii) a
       modulatory domain; iii) a first member of a dimerization pair (e.g., a dimerizer-binding
       pair); iv) a transmembrane domain interposed between the member of a specific binding
       pair (e.g., an antigen-binding domain) and the modulatory domain; and b) a second
       polypeptide comprising: i) a second member of the dimerization pair (e.g., the dimerizer
       binding pair); and ii) an intracellular signaling domain. The modulatory domain can be a co
       stimulatory domain.
[0065] In some embodiments, a CAR of the present disclosure comprises: a) a first polypeptide
       comprising: i) a member of a specific binding pair (e.g., an antigen-binding domain); ii) a
       co-stimulatory domain; iii) a first member of a dimerization pair (e.g., a dimerizer-binding
       pair); iv) a transmembrane domain interposed between the member of a specific binding
       pair (e.g., an antigen-binding domain) and the co-stimulatory domain; and b) a second
       polypeptide comprising: i) a second member of the dimerization pair (e.g., the dimerizer
       binding pair); and ii) an intracellular signaling domain.
[0066] An example of a subject CAR is represented schematically in Figure 17. A CAR of the
       present disclosure can be present in the plasma membrane of a eukaryotic cell, e.g., a
       mammalian cell, where suitable mammalian cells include, but are not limited to, a cytotoxic
       cell, a T lymphocyte, a stem cell, a progeny of a stem cell, a progenitor cell, a progeny of a
       progenitor cell, and an NK cell. When present in the plasma membrane of a eukaryotic cell,
       a CAR of the present disclosure is active in the presence of: 1) a dimerizing agent binds to
       the first and second members of the dimerizer-binding pair in the CAR, or otherwise
       induces dimerization of the first and second members of the dimer; and 2) a factor that
       binds the member of a specific binding pair (e.g., an antigen-binding domain), e.g., an
       antigen that binds the antigen-binding domain of the CAR. The factor that binds the
       member of the specific binding pair is a second member of the specific binding pair. The
       second member of the specific binding pair can be a soluble (e.g., not bound to a cell)
       factor; a factor present on the surface of a cell such as a target cell; a factor presented on a
       solid surface; a factor present in a lipid bilayer; and the like. Where the member of a
       specific binding pair is an antibody, and the second member of the specific binding pair is
       an antigen, the antigen can be a soluble (e.g., not bound to a cell) antigen; an antigen present
                                                     9

       on the surface of a cell such as a target cell; an antigen presented on a solid surface; an
       antigen present in a lipid bilayer; and the like.
[0067] In some instances, a CAR of the present disclosure, when present in the plasma membrane
       of a eukaryotic cell, and when activated by a second member of a specific binding pair that
       binds the member of the specific-binding pair of the CAR (e.g., an antigen that binds the
       antigen-binding domain of the CAR) and a dimerizing agent, increases expression of at least
       one nucleic acid in the cell. For example, in some cases, a CAR of the present disclosure,
       when present in the plasma membrane of a eukaryotic cell, and when activated by an
       antigen that binds the antigen-binding domain of the CAR and a dimerizing agent, increases
       expression of at least one nucleic acid in the cell by at least about 10%, at least about 15%,
       at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least about 40%, at least about
       50%, at least about 75%, at least about 2-fold, at least about 2.5-fold, at least about 5-fold,
       at least about 10-fold, or more than 10-fold, compared with the level of transcription of the
       nucleic acid in the absence of the antigen and/or the dimerizing agent.
[0068] As an example, the second polypeptide of a CAR of the present disclosure can include an
       immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM)-containing intracellular signaling
       polypeptide; in such cases, a CAR of the present disclosure, when present in the plasma
       membrane of a eukaryotic cell, and when activated by an antigen that binds the antigen
       binding domain of the CAR and a dimerizing agent, increases nuclear factor of activated T
       cells (NFAT)-dependent transcription. NFAT-dependent transcription includes transcription
       induced by any member of the NFAT family, including, e.g., NFATc1, NFATc2, NFATc3,
       NFATc4, NFAT5; AP-1; Spl; NKKB; and the like.
[0069] A CAR of the present disclosure, when present in the plasma membrane of a eukaryotic
       cell, and when activated by an antigen that binds the antigen-binding domain of the CAR
       and a dimerizing agent, can, in some instances, result in increased production of one or
       more cytokines by the cell. For example, a CAR of the present disclosure, when present in
       the plasma membrane of a eukaryotic cell, and when activated by an antigen that binds the
       antigen-binding domain of the CAR and a dimerizing agent, can increase production of a
       cytokine by the cell by at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 2 0%, at least
       about 2 5%, at least about 3 0%, at least about 4 0%, at least about 50%, at least about 75%, at
       least about 2-fold, at least about 2.5-fold, at least about 5-fold, at least about 10-fold, or
       more than 10-fold, compared with the amount of cytokine produced by the cell in the
       absence of the antigen and/or the dimerizing agent. Cytokines whose production can be
       increased include, but are not limited to, an interferon, e.g., IL-2, interferon gamma (IFN-7),
                                                    10

       tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-x), IL-15, IL-12, IL-4, IL-5, IL-10; a chemokine; a
       growth factor; and the like.
[0070] In some cases, a CAR of the present disclosure, when present in the plasma membrane of a
       eukaryotic cell, and when activated by an antigen that binds the antigen-binding domain of
       the CAR and a dimerizing agent, can result in both an increase in transcription of a nucleic
       acid in the cell and an increase in production of a cytokine by the cell.
[0071] In some instances, a CAR of the present disclosure, when present in the plasma membrane
       of a eukaryotic cell, and when activated by a dimerizing agent, results in cytotoxic activity
       by the cell toward a target cell that expresses on its cell surface an antigen to which the
       antigen-binding domain of the first polypeptide of the CAR binds. For example, where the
       eukaryotic cell is a cytotoxic cell (e.g., an NK cell or a cytotoxic T lymphocyte), a CAR of
       the present disclosure, when present in the plasma membrane of the cell, and when activated
       by a dimerizing agent, increases cytotoxic activity of the cell toward a target cell that
       expresses on its cell surface an antigen to which the antigen-binding domain of the first
       polypeptide of the CAR binds. For example, where the eukaryotic cell is an NK cell or a T
       lymphocyte, a CAR of the present disclosure, when present in the plasma membrane of the
       cell, and when activated by a dimerizing agent, increases cytotoxic activity of the cell by at
       least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about
       30%, at least about 40%, at least about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 2-fold, at
       least about 2.5-fold, at least about 5-fold, at least about 10-fold, or more than 10-fold,
       compared to the cytotoxic activity of the cell in the absence of the dimerizing agent.
[0072] In some cases, a CAR of the present disclosure, when present in the plasma membrane of a
       eukaryotic cell, and when activated by an antigen that binds the antigen-binding domain of
       the CAR and a dimerizing agent, can result in other CAR activation related events such as
       proliferation and expansion (either due to increased cellular division or anti-apoptotic
       responses).
[0073] In some cases, a CAR of the present disclosure, when present in the plasma membrane of a
       eukaryotic cell, and when activated by an antigen that binds the antigen-binding domain of
       the CAR and a dimerizing agent, can result in other CAR activation related events such as
       intracellular signaling modulation, cellular differentiation, or cell death.
[0074] A CAR of the present disclosure can be present in a eukaryotic cell membrane, where the
       first and second polypeptides of the CAR are not covalently linked to one another. A CAR
       of the present disclosure can be present in a eukaryotic cell membrane as a single
       heterodimer that is not covalently linked to any other polypeptide in the membrane.
                                                    11

       Alternatively, a first CAR of the present disclosure can be present in a eukaryotic cell
       membrane as a heterodimer that is covalently or non-covalently linked to a second CAR of
       the present disclosure. In some cases, the first and the second CAR are covalently linked via
       a disulfide bond formed between cysteines present in a hinge region present in both the first
       polypeptide of the first CAR and the first polypeptide of the second CAR.
[0075] In some cases, a CAR of the present disclosure can be present in a eukaryotic cell
       membrane, where the first polypeptides of the CAR comprise an antibody fragment and the
       second polypeptides of the CAR comprise a signal transducing domain derived from a
       cytokine receptor, such that, upon dimerization, the CAR may represent a heterodimeric
       signalobody CAR, e.g., a signalobody composed of at least two independent polypeptides.
       A "signalobody", as it is known in the art, is a single chimeric macromolecule composed of
       an antibody fragment and a signal transduction domain derived from a cytokine receptor. In
       certain instances, a heterodimeric-signalobody CAR of the present disclosure, when present
       in the cell membrane of a eukaryotic cell, dimerized by a dimerizer, and activated by an
       antigen, e.g., an oligomerized antigen, may induce the oligomerization of the heterodimeric
       signalobody CAR. Such ligand-induced oligomerization of a heterodimeric-signalobody
       CAR may activate, e.g., increase, or perpetuate, e.g., maintain, signal transduction, e.g.,
       ligand-induced oligomerization of a heterodimeric-signalobody CAR may transmit a signal
       eliciting a cellular response. In some instances, a plurality of heterodimeric-signalobody
       CARs may be utilized combinatorially to elicit a desired cellular response.
       Member of a specific binding pair
[0076] A CAR of the present disclosure includes a member of a specific binding pair. Specific
       binding pairs include, but are not limited to, antigen-antibody binding pairs; ligand-receptor
       binding pairs; and the like. Thus, a member of a specific binding pair suitable for use in a
       CAR of the present disclosure includes an antigen; an antibody; a ligand; and a ligand
       binding receptor.
       Antigen-binding domain
[0077] An antigen-binding domain suitable for use in a CAR of the present disclosure can be any
       antigen-binding polypeptide, a wide variety of which are known in the art. In some
       instances, the antigen-binding domain is a single chain Fv (scFv). Other antibody based
       recognition domains (cAb VHH (camelid antibody variable domains) and humanized
       versions, IgNAR VH (shark antibody variable domains) and humanized versions, sdAb VH
       (single domain antibody variable domains) and "camelized" antibody variable domains are
       suitable for use. In some instances, T-cell receptor (TCR) based recognition domains such
                                                   12

       as single chain TCR (scTv, single chain two-domain TCR containing VctVp) are also
       suitable for use.
[0078] An antigen-binding domain suitable for use in a CAR of the present disclosure can have a
       variety of antigen-binding specificities. In some cases, the antigen-binding domain is
       specific for an epitope present in an antigen that is expressed by (synthesized by) a cancer
       cell, i.e., a cancer cell associated antigen. The cancer cell associated antigen can be an
       antigen associated with, e.g., a breast cancer cell, a B cell lymphoma, a Hodgkin lymphoma
       cell, an ovarian cancer cell, a prostate cancer cell, a mesothelioma, a lung cancer cell (e.g., a
       small cell lung cancer cell), a non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphoma (B-NHL) cell, an ovarian
       cancer cell, a prostate cancer cell, a mesothelioma cell, a lung cancer cell (e.g., a small cell
       lung cancer cell), a melanoma cell, a chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell, an acute
       lymphocytic leukemia cell, a neuroblastoma cell, a glioma, a glioblastoma, a
       medulloblastoma, a colorectal cancer cell, etc. A cancer cell associated antigen may also be
       expressed by a non-cancerous cell.
[0079] Non-limiting examples of antigens to which an antigen-binding domain of a subject CAR
       can bind include, e.g., CD19, CD20, CD38, CD30, Her2/neu, ERBB2, CA125, MUC-1,
       prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA), CD44 surface adhesion molecule, mesothelin,
       carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), EGFRvIII,
       vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR2), high molecular weight-melanoma
       associated antigen (HMW-MAA), MAGE-Al, IL-13R-a2, GD2, and the like.
       Ligand
[0080] In some cases, a member of a specific binding pair suitable for use in a subject CAR is a
       ligand for a receptor. Ligands include, but are not limited to, cytokines (e.g., IL-13, etc.);
       growth factors (e.g., heregulin; vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF); and the like); an
       integrin-binding peptide (e.g., a peptide comprising the sequence Arg-Gly-Asp); and the
       like.
[0081] Where the member of a specific binding pair in a subject CAR is a ligand, the CAR can be
       activated in the presence of both a dimerizer agent and a second member of the specific
       binding pair, where the second member of the specific binding pair is a receptor for the
       ligand. For example, where the ligand is VEGF, the second member of the specific binding
       pair can be a VEGF receptor, including a soluble VEGF receptor. As another example,
       where the ligand is heregulin, the second member of the specific binding pair can be Her2.
                                                     13

       Receptors
[0082] As noted above, in some cases, the member of a specific binding pair that is included in a
       subject CAR is a receptor, e.g., a receptor for a ligand, a co-receptor, etc. The receptor can
       be a ligand-binding fragment of a receptor. Suitable receptors include, but are not limited to,
       a growth factor receptor (e.g., a VEGF receptor); a killer cell lectin-like receptor subfamily
       K, member 1 (NKG2D) polypeptide (receptor for MICA, MICB, and ULB6); a cytokine
       receptor (e.g., an IL-13 receptor; an IL-2 receptor; etc.); Her2; CD27; a natural cytotoxicity
       receptor (NCR) (e.g., NKP30 (NCR3/CD337) polypeptide (receptor for HLA-B-associated
       transcript 3 (BAT3) and B7-H6); etc.); etc.
       Hinge region
[0083] In some cases, the first polypeptide of a subject CAR comprises a hinge region (also
       referred to herein as a "spacer"), where the hinge region is interposed between the antigen
       binding domain and the transmembrane domain. In some cases, the hinge region is an
       immunoglobulin heavy chain hinge region. In some cases, the hinge region is a hinge region
       polypeptide derived from a receptor (e.g., a CD8-derived hinge region).
[0084] The hinge region can have a length of from about 4 amino acids to about 50 amino acids,
       e.g., from about 4 aa to about 10 aa, from about 10 aa to about 15 aa, from about 15 aa to
       about 20 aa, from about 20 aa to about 25 aa, from about 25 aa to about 30 aa, from about
       30 aa to about 40 aa, or from about 40 aa to about 50 aa.
[0085] Suitable spacers can be readily selected and can be of any of a number of suitable lengths,
       such as from 1 amino acid (e.g., Gly) to 20 amino acids, from 2 amino acids to 15 amino
       acids, from 3 amino acids to 12 amino acids, including 4 amino acids to 10 amino acids, 5
       amino acids to 9 amino acids, 6 amino acids to 8 amino acids, or 7 amino acids to 8 amino
       acids, and can be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 amino acids.
[0086] Exemplary spacers include glycine polymers (G)n, glycine-serine polymers (including, for
       example, (GS)n, (GSGGS)n (SEQ ID NO:37) and (GGGS)n (SEQ ID NO:38), where n is an
       integer of at least one), glycine-alanine polymers, alanine-serine polymers, and other
       flexible linkers known in the art. Glycine and glycine-serine polymers can be used; both Gly
       and Ser are relatively unstructured, and therefore can serve as a neutral tether between
       components. Glycine polymers can be used; glycine accesses significantly more phi-psi
       space than even alanine, and is much less restricted than residues with longer side chains
       (see Scheraga, Rev. ComputationalChem. 11173-142 (1992)). Exemplary spacers can
       comprise amino acid sequences including, but not limited to, GGSG (SEQ ID NO:39),
                                                    14

       GGSGG (SEQ ID NO:40), GSGSG (SEQ ID NO:41), GSGGG (SEQ ID NO:42), GGGSG
       (SEQ ID NO:43), GSSSG (SEQ ID NO:44), and the like.
[0087] In some cases, the hinge region in the first polypeptide of a subject CAR includes at least
       one cysteine. For example, in some cases, the hinge region can include the sequence Cys
       Pro-Pro-Cys. If present, a cysteine in the hinge region of a first CAR can be available to
       form a disulfide bond with a hinge region in a second CAR.
[0088] Immunoglobulin hinge region amino acid sequences are known in the art; see, e.g., Tan et
       al. (1990) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87:162; and Huck et al. (1986) Nucl. Acids Res.
        14:1779. As non-limiting examples, an immunoglobulin hinge region can include one of the
       following amino acid sequences: DKTHT (SEQ ID NO:45); CPPC (SEQ ID NO:46);
       CPEPKSCDTPPPCPR (SEQ ID NO:47) (see, e.g., Glaser et al. (2005) J Biol. Chem.
       280:41494); ELKTPLGDTTHT (SEQ ID NO:48); KSCDKTHTCP (SEQ ID NO:49);
       KCCVDCP (SEQ ID NO:50); KYGPPCP (SEQ ID NO:5 1); EPKSCDKTHTCPPCP (SEQ
       ID NO:52) (human IgGI hinge); ERKCCVECPPCP (SEQ ID NO:53) (human IgG2 hinge);
       ELKTPLGDTTHTCPRCP (SEQ ID NO:54) (human IgG3 hinge); SPNMVPHAHHAQ
       (SEQ ID NO:55) (human IgG4 hinge); and the like.
[0089] The hinge region can comprise an amino acid sequence of a human IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, or
       IgG4, hinge region. The hinge region can include one or more amino acid substitutions
       and/or insertions and/or deletions compared to a wild-type (naturally-occurring) hinge
       region. For example, His 229 of human IgGI hinge can be substituted with Tyr, so that the
       hinge region comprises the sequence EPKSCDKTYTCPPCP (SEQ ID NO:52); see, e.g.,
       Yan et al. (2012) J Biol. Chem. 287:5891.
[0090] The hinge region can comprise an amino acid sequence derived from human CD8; e.g., the
       hinge region can comprise the amino acid sequence:
       TTTPAPRPPTPAPTIASQPLSLRPEACRPAAGGAVHTRGLDFACD (SEQ ID NO:56),
       or a variant thereof.
       Transmembrane domain
[0091] The first and the second polypeptides of a CAR of the present disclosure include
       transmembrane domains for insertion into a eukaryotic cell membrane. The transmembrane
       domain of the first polypeptide is interposed between the antigen-binding domain and the
       co-stimulatory domain. Where the first polypeptide includes a hinge region, the
       transmembrane domain is interposed between the hinge region and the co-stimulatory
       domain, such that the first polypeptide comprises, in order from the amino terminus (N
       terminus) to the carboxyl terminus (C-terminus): an antigen-binding domain; a hinge
                                                  15

        region; a transmembrane domain; a first co-stimulatory domain; and a first member of a
        dimerizer-binding pair.
[0092] The transmembrane domain of the second polypeptide is at or near the N-terminus of the
       polypeptide, such that the second polypeptide comprises, in order from N-terminus to C
        terminus: a transmembrane domain; a second co-stimulatory domain; a second member of
        the dimerizer-binding pair; and an intracellular signaling domain.
[0093] Any transmembrane (TM) domain that provides for insertion of a polypeptide into the cell
        membrane of a eukaryotic (e.g., mammalian) cell is suitable for use. As one non-limiting
        example, the TM sequence IYIWAPLAGTCGVLLLSLVITLYC (SEQ ID NO:30) can be
       used. Additional non-limiting examples of suitable TM sequences include: a) CD8 beta
        derived: LGLLVAGVLVLLVSLGVAIHLCC (SEQ ID NO:57); b) CD4 derived:
       ALIVLGGVAGLLLFIGLGIFFCVRC (SEQ ID NO:58); c) CD3 zeta derived:
       LCYLLDGILFIYGVILTALFLRV (SEQ ID NO:59); d) CD28 derived:
       WVLVVVGGVLACYSLLVTVAFIIFWV (SEQ ID NO:60); e) CD134 (OX40) derived:
       VAAILGLGLVLGLLGPLAILLALYLL (SEQ ID NO:61); and f) CD7 derived:
       ALPAALAVISFLLGLGLGVACVLA (SEQ ID NO:62).
        Linkers
[0094] In some cases, a first polypeptide of a subject CAR includes a linker between any two
        adjacent domains. For example, a linker can be disposed between the transmembrane
        domain and the first co-stimulatory domain of the first polypeptide. As another example, a
        linker can be disposed between the first co-stimulatory domain and the first member of a
        dimerizer-binding pair of the first polypeptide. As another example, a linker can be disposed
       between the transmembrane domain and the second co-stimulatory domain of the second
       polypeptide. As another example, a linker can be disposed between the second co
        stimulatory domain and the second member of the dimerizer-binding pair of the second
       polypeptide. As another example, a linker can be disposed between the second member of
        the dimerizer-binding pair and the intracellular signaling domain of the second polypeptide.
[0095] The linker peptide may have any of a variety of amino acid sequences. Proteins can be
       joined by a spacer peptide, generally of a flexible nature, although other chemical linkages
        are not excluded. A linker can be a peptide of between about 6 and about 40 amino acids in
        length, or between about 6 and about 25 amino acids in length. These linkers can be
       produced by using synthetic, linker-encoding oligonucleotides to couple the proteins.
        Peptide linkers with a degree of flexibility can be used. The linking peptides may have
        virtually any amino acid sequence, bearing in mind that suitable linkers will have a
                                                    16

       sequence that results in a generally flexible peptide. The use of small amino acids, such as
       glycine and alanine, are of use in creating a flexible peptide. The creation of such sequences
       is routine to those of skill in the art.
[0096] Suitable linkers can be readily selected and can be of any of a suitable of different lengths,
       such as from 1 amino acid (e.g., Gly) to 20 amino acids, from 2 amino acids to 15 amino
       acids, from 3 amino acids to 12 amino acids, including 4 amino acids to 10 amino acids, 5
       amino acids to 9 amino acids, 6 amino acids to 8 amino acids, or 7 amino acids to 8 amino
       acids, and may be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 amino acids.
[0097] Exemplary flexible linkers include glycine polymers (G)", glycine-serine polymers
       (including, for example, (GS)n, GSGGSn (SEQ ID NO:37) and GGGSn (SEQ ID NO:38),
       where n is an integer of at least one), glycine-alanine polymers, alanine-serine polymers,
       and other flexible linkers known in the art. Glycine and glycine-serine polymers are of
       interest since both of these amino acids are relatively unstructured, and therefore may serve
       as a neutral tether between components. Glycine polymers are of particular interest since
       glycine accesses significantly more phi-psi space than even alanine, and is much less
       restricted than residues with longer side chains (see Scheraga, Rev. ComputationalChem.
       11173-142 (1992)). Exemplary flexible linkers include, but are not limited GGSG (SEQ ID
       NO:39), GGSGG (SEQ ID NO:40), GSGSG (SEQ ID NO:41), GSGGG (SEQ ID NO:42),
       GGGSG (SEQ ID NO:43), GSSSG (SEQ ID NO:44), and the like. The ordinarily skilled
       artisan will recognize that design of a peptide conjugated to any elements described above
       can include linkers that are all or partially flexible, such that the linker can include a flexible
       linker as well as one or more portions that confer less flexible structure.
       Modulatory domains
[0098] Modulatory domains suitable for use in a CAR of the present disclosure include co
       stimulatory domains.
[0099] In some cases, the modulatory domain on the first polypeptide of a subject CAR has
       substantially the same amino acid sequence as the modulatory domain on the second
       polypeptide of the CAR. For example, in some cases, the modulatory domain on the first
       polypeptide of a CAR comprises an amino acid sequence that is at least about 90%, at least
       about 95%, at least about 98%, at least about 99%, or 100%, identical to the amino acid
       sequence of the modulatory domain on the second polypeptide of the CAR. The modulatory
       domain of the first polypeptide of a subject CAR can have substantially the same length as
       the modulatory domain of the second polypeptide of a subject CAR; e.g., the first and
       second modulatory domains can differ in length from one another by fewer than 10 amino
                                                    17

        acids, or fewer than 5 amino acids. In some cases, the first and second modulatory domains
        have the same length.
[00100]          A modulatory domain suitable for inclusion in the first and the second polypeptide
        of a subject CAR can have a length of from about 30 amino acids to about 70 amino acids
        (aa), e.g., a modulatory domain can have a length of from about 30 aa to about 35 aa, from
        about 35 aa to about 40 aa, from about 40 aa to about 45 aa, from about 45 aa to about 50
        aa, from about 50 aa to about 55 aa, from about 55 aa to about 60 aa, from about 60 aa to
        about 65 aa, or from about 65 aa to about 70 aa. In other cases, modulatory domain can have
        a length of from about 70 aa to about 100 aa, from about 100 aa to about 200 aa, or greater
        than 200 aa.
[00101]          Co-stimulatory domains suitable for use in a CAR of the present disclosure are
        generally polypeptides derived from receptors. In some embodiments, co-stimulatory
        domains homodimerize. A subject co-stimulatory domain can be an intracellular portion of
        a transmembrane protein (i.e., the co-stimulatory domain can be derived from a
        transmembrane protein). Non-limiting examples of suitable co-stimulatory polypeptides
        include, but are not limited to, 4-1BB (CD137), CD28, ICOS, OX-40, BTLA, CD27, CD30,
        GITR, and HVEM.
[00102]          In some cases, the co-stimulatory domain on the first polypeptide of a subject CAR
        has substantially the same amino acid sequence as the co-stimulatory domain on the second
        polypeptide of the CAR. For example, in some cases, the co-stimulatory domain on the first
        polypeptide of a CAR comprises an amino acid sequence that is at least about 90%, at least
        about 95%, at least about 98%, at least about 99%, or 100%, identical to the amino acid
        sequence of the co-stimulatory domain on the second polypeptide of the CAR. The co
        stimulatory domain of the first polypeptide of a subject CAR can have substantially the
        same length as the co-stimulatory domain of the second polypeptide of a subject CAR; e.g.,
        the first and second co-stimulatory domains can differ in length from one another by fewer
        than 10 amino acids, or fewer than 5 amino acids. In some cases, the first and second co
        stimulatory domains have the same length.
[00103]          A co-stimulatory domain suitable for inclusion in the first and the second
        polypeptide of a subject CAR can have a length of from about 30 amino acids to about 70
        amino acids (aa), e.g., a co-stimulatory domain can have a length of from about 30 aa to
        about 35 aa, from about 35 aa to about 40 aa, from about 40 aa to about 45 aa, from about
        45 aa to about 50 aa, from about 50 aa to about 55 aa, from about 55 aa to about 60 aa, from
        about 60 aa to about 65 aa, or from about 65 aa to about 70 aa. In other cases, the co
                                                   18

        stimulatory domain can have a length of from about 70 aa to about 100 aa, from about 100
        aa to about 200 aa, or greater than 200 aa.
[00104]         In some cases, the co-stimulatory domain is derived from an intracellular portion of
        the transmembrane protein 4-1BB (also known as TNFRSF9; CD137; 4-1BB; CDw137;
        ILA; etc.). For example, a suitable co-stimulatory domain can comprise an amino acid
        sequence having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about
        90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to the
        following amino acid sequence:
        KRGRKKLLYIFKQPFMRPVQTTQEEDGCSCRFPEEEEGGCEL (SEQ ID NO:24). In
        some of these embodiments, the co-stimulatory domain of both the first and the second
       polypeptide has a length of from about 30 aa to about 35 aa, from about 35 aa to about 40
        aa, from about 40 aa to about 45 aa, from about 45 aa to about 50 aa, from about 50 aa to
        about 55 aa, from about 55 aa to about 60 aa, from about 60 aa to about 65 aa, or from about
        65 aa to about 70 aa.
[00105]         In some cases, the co-stimulatory domain is derived from an intracellular portion of
        the transmembrane protein CD28 (also known as Tp44). For example, a suitable co
        stimulatory domain can comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about 75%, at least
        about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%,
        or 100% amino acid sequence identity to the following amino acid sequence:
        FWVRSKRSRLLHSDYMNMTPRRPGPTRKHYQPYAPPRDFAAYRS (SEQ ID NO:63).
        In some of these embodiments, the co-stimulatory domain of both the first and the second
       polypeptide has a length of from about 30 aa to about 35 aa, from about 35 aa to about 40
        aa, from about 40 aa to about 45 aa, from about 45 aa to about 50 aa, from about 50 aa to
        about 55 aa, from about 55 aa to about 60 aa, from about 60 aa to about 65 aa, or from about
        65 aa to about 70 aa.
[00106]         In some cases, the co-stimulatory domain is derived from an intracellular portion of
        the transmembrane protein ICOS (also known as AILIM, CD278, and CVIDI). For
        example, a suitable co-stimulatory domain can comprise an amino acid sequence having at
        least about 7 5%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about
        95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to the following amino acid
        sequence:
        TKKKYSSSVHDPNGEYMFMRAVNTAKKSRLTDVTL (SEQ ID NO:64). In some of
        these embodiments, the co-stimulatory domain of both the first and the second polypeptide
        has a length of from about 30 aa to about 35 aa, from about 35 aa to about 40 aa, from about
                                                    19

        40 aa to about 45 aa, from about 45 aa to about 50 aa, from about 50 aa to about 55 aa, from
        about 55 aa to about 60 aa, from about 60 aa to about 65 aa, or from about 65 aa to about 70
        aa.
[001071         In some cases, the co-stimulatory domain is derived from an intracellular portion of
        the transmembrane protein OX-40 (also known as TNFRSF4, RP5-902P8.3, ACT35,
        CD 134, OX40, TXGP1L). For example, a suitable co-stimulatory domain can comprise an
        amino acid sequence having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at
        least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence
        identity to the following amino acid sequence:
        RRDQRLPPDAHKPPGGGSFRTPIQEEQADAHSTLAKI (SEQ ID NO:65). In some of
        these embodiments, the co-stimulatory domain of both the first and the second polypeptide
        has a length of from about 30 aa to about 35 aa, from about 35 aa to about 40 aa, from about
        40 aa to about 45 aa, from about 45 aa to about 50 aa, from about 50 aa to about 55 aa, from
        about 55 aa to about 60 aa, from about 60 aa to about 65 aa, or from about 65 aa to about 70
        aa.
[00108]         In some cases, the co-stimulatory domain is derived from an intracellular portion of
        the transmembrane protein BTLA (also known as BTLA1 and CD272). For example, a
        suitable co-stimulatory domain can comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about
        75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least
        about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to the following amino acid sequence:
        CCLRRHQGKQNELSDTAGREINLVDAHLKSEQTEASTRQNSQVLLSETGIYDNDPD
        LCFRMQEGSEVYSNPCLEENKPGIVYASLNHSVIGPNSRLARNVKEAPTEYASICVR
        S (SEQ ID NO:66).
[00109]         In some cases, the co-stimulatory domain is derived from an intracellular portion of
        the transmembrane protein CD27 (also known as S152, T14, TNFRSF7, and Tp55). For
        example, a suitable co-stimulatory domain can comprise an amino acid sequence having at
        least about 7 5%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about
        95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to the following amino acid
        sequence:
        HQRRKYRSNKGESPVEPAEPCRYSCPREEEGSTIPIQEDYRKPEPACSP (SEQ ID
        NO:67). In some of these embodiments, the co-stimulatory domain of both the first and the
        second polypeptide has a length of from about 30 aa to about 35 aa, from about 35 aa to
        about 40 aa, from about 40 aa to about 45 aa, from about 45 aa to about 50 aa, from about
                                                   20

        50 aa to about 55 aa, from about 55 aa to about 60 aa, from about 60 aa to about 65 aa, or
        from about 65 aa to about 70 aa.
[00110]          In some cases, the co-stimulatory domain is derived from an intracellular portion of
        the transmembrane protein CD30 (also known as TNFRSF8, D1S166E, and Ki-1). For
        example, a suitable co-stimulatory domain can comprise an amino acid sequence having at
        least about 7 5%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about
        95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to a contiguous stretch of
        from about 100 amino acids to about 110 amino acids (aa), from about 110 aa to about 115
        aa, from about 115 aa to about 120 aa, from about 120 aa to about 130 aa, from about 130
        aa to about 140 aa, from about 140 aa to about 150 aa, from about 150 aa to about 160 aa, or
        from about 160 aa to about 185 aa of the following amino acid sequence:
       RRACRKRIRQKLHLCYPVQTSQPKLELVDSRPRRSSTQLRSGASVTEPVAEERGLMS
        QPLMETCHSVGAAYLESLPLQDASPAGGPSSPRDLPEPRVSTEHTNNKIEKIYIMKA
       DTVIVGTVKAELPEGRGLAGPAEPELEEELEADHTPHYPEQETEPPLGSCSDVMLSV
       EEEGKEDPLPTAASGK (SEQ ID NO:68).
[00111]          In some cases, the co-stimulatory domain is derived from an intracellular portion of
        the transmembrane protein GITR (also known as TNFRSF18, RP5-902P8.2, AITR, CD357,
        and GITR-D). For example, a suitable co-stimulatory domain can comprise an amino acid
        sequence having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about
        90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to the
        following amino acid sequence:
        HIWQLRSQCMWPRETQLLLEVPPSTEDARSCQFPEEERGERSAEEKGRLGDLWV
        (SEQ ID NO:69). In some of these embodiments, the co-stimulatory domain of both the
        first and the second polypeptide has a length of from about 30 aa to about 35 aa, from about
        35 aa to about 40 aa, from about 40 aa to about 45 aa, from about 45 aa to about 50 aa, from
        about 50 aa to about 55 aa, from about 55 aa to about 60 aa, from about 60 aa to about 65
        aa, or from about 65 aa to about 70 aa.
[00112]          In some cases, the co-stimulatory domain derived from an intracellular portion of the
        transmembrane protein HVEM (also known as TNFRSF14, RP3-395M20.6, ATAR,
        CD270, HVEA, HVEM, LIGHTR, and TR2). For example, a suitable co-stimulatory
        domain can comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about 75%, at least about 80%,
        at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%
        amino acid sequence identity to the following amino acid sequence:
        CVKRRKPRGDVVKVIVSVQRKRQEAEGEATVIEALQAPPDVTTVAVEETIPSFTGRS
                                                   21

        PNH (SEQ ID NO:70). In some of these embodiments, the co-stimulatory domain of both
        the first and the second polypeptide has a length of from about 30 aa to about 35 aa, from
        about 35 aa to about 40 aa, from about 40 aa to about 45 aa, from about 45 aa to about 50
        aa, from about 50 aa to about 55 aa, from about 55 aa to about 60 aa, from about 60 aa to
        about 65 aa, or from about 65 aa to about 70 aa.
        Dimer pairs
[00113]          Dimer pairs suitable for use in a subject CAR include dimerizer-binding pairs.
        Dimerizer-binding pairs suitable for use in a CAR of the present disclosure are in some
        embodiments polypeptides that bind to a different site of the same molecule (referred to
        herein as a "dimerizer"). In the presence of a dimerizer, both members of the dimerizer
        binding pair bind to a different site of the dimerizer and are thus brought into proximity
        with one another. In some embodiments, binding to the dimerizer is reversible. In some
        embodiments, binding to the dimerizer is irreversible. In some embodiments, binding to the
        dimerizer is non-covalent. In some embodiments, binding to the dimerizer is covalent.
[00114]          Other dimer pairs suitable for use include dimerizer-binding pairs that dimerize upon
        binding of a first member of a dimer pair to a dimerizing agent, where the dimerizing agent
        induces a conformational change in the first member of the dimer pair, and where the
        conformational change allows the first member of the dimer pair to bind (covalently or non
        covalently) to a second member of the dimer pair.
[00115]          Other dimer pairs suitable for use include dimer pairs in which exposure to light
        (e.g., blue light) induces dimerization of the dimer pair.
[00116]          Regardless of the mechanism, the dimer pair will dimerize upon exposure to an
        agent that induces dimerization, where the agent is in some cases a small molecule, or, in
        other cases, light. Thus, for simplicity, the discussion below referring to "dimerizer-binding
        pairs" includes dimer pairs that dimerize regardless of the mechanism.
[001171          Non-limiting examples of suitable dimers (e.g., dimerizer-binding pairs) include, but
        are not limited to:
        a) FK506 binding protein (FKBP) and FKBP;
        b) FKBP and calcineurin catalytic subunit A (CnA);
        c) FKBP and cyclophilin;
        d) FKBP and FKBP-rapamycin associated protein (FRB);
        e) gyrase B (GyrB) and GyrB;
        f) dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and DHFR;
        g) DmrB and DmrB;
                                                    22

        h) PYL and ABI;
        i) Cry2 and CIBI; and
       j)  GAI and GID1.
[001181          A first or a second member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) of a subject
        CAR can have a length of from about 50 amino acids to about 300 amino acids or more;
        e.g., a first or a second member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) of a subject CAR
        can have a length of from about 50 aa to about 100 aa, from about 100 aa to about 150 aa,
        from about 150 aa to about 200 aa, from about 200 aa toa bout 250 aa, from about 250 aa to
        about 300 aa, or more than 300 aa.
[00119]          In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) of a subject
        CAR is derived from FKBP. For example, a suitable dimerizer-binding pair member can
        comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least
        about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid
        sequence identity to the following amino acid sequence:
        MGVQVETISPGDGRTFPKRGQTCVVHYTGMLEDGKKFDSSRDRNKPFKFMLGKQE
        VIRGWEEGVAQMSVGQRAKLTISPDYAYGATGHPGIIPPHATLVFDVELLKLE                                      (SEQ
        ID NO:12).
[00120]          In some cases, a member of a dimerizer-binding pair of a subject CAR is derived
        from calcineurin catalytic subunit A (also known as PPP3CA; CALN; CALNA; CALNA1;
        CCN1; CNA1; PPP2B; CAM-PRP catalytic subunit; calcineurin A alpha; calmodulin
        dependent calcineurin A subunit alpha isoform; protein phosphatase 2B, catalytic subunit,
        alpha isoform; etc.). For example, a suitable dimerizer-binding pair member can comprise
        an amino acid sequence having at least about   7 5 %, at
                                                                 least about 80%, at least about 85%,
        at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence
        identity to the following amino acid sequence (PP2Ac domain):
        LEESVALRIITEGASILRQEKNLLDIDAPVTVCGDIHGQFFDLMKLFEVGGSPANTRY
        LFLGDYVDRGYFSIECVLYLWALKILYPKTLFLLRGNHECRHLTEYFTFKQECKIKY
        SERVYDACMDAFDCLPLAALMNQQFLCVHGGLSPEINTLDDIRKLDRFKEPPAYGP
        MCDILWSDPLEDFGNEKTQEHFTHNTVRGCSYFYSYPAVCEFLQHNNLLSILRAHE
        AQDAGYRMYRKSQTTGFPSLITIFSAPNYLDVYNNKAAVLKYENNVMNIRQFNCSP
        HPYWLPNFM (SEQ ID NO:71).
[00121]          In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) is derived from
        cyclophilin (also known cyclophilin A, PPIA, CYPA, CYPH, PPIase A, etc.). For example,
        a suitable dimerizer-binding pair member can comprise an amino acid sequence having at
                                                  23

        least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about
        95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to the following amino acid
        sequence:
        MVNPTVFFDIAVDGEPLGRVSFELFADKVPKTAENFRALSTGEKGFGYKGSCFHRII
        PGFMCQGGDFTRHNGTGGKSIYGEKFEDENFILKHTGPGILSMANAGPNTNGSQFFI
        CTAKTEWLDGKHVVFGKVKEGMNIVEAMERFGSRNGKTSKKITIADCGQLE                                     (SEQ
        ID NO:72).
[00122]         In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) is derived from
       MTOR (also known as FKBP-rapamycin associated protein; FK506 binding protein 12
       rapamycin associated protein 1; FK506 binding protein 12-rapamycin associated protein 2;
       FK506-binding protein 12-rapamycin complex-associated protein 1; FRAP; FRAP1;
       FRAP2; RAFT1; and RAPT1). For example, a suitable dimerizer-binding pair member can
        comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least
        about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid
        sequence identity to the following amino acid sequence (also known as "Frb": Fkbp
        Rapamycin Binding Domain):
        MILWHEMWHEGLEEASRLYFGERNVKGMFEVLEPLHAMMERGPQTLKETSFNQA
        YGRDLMEAQEWCRKYMKSGNVKDLLQAWDLYYHVFRRISK (SEQ ID NO: 14).
[00123]         In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) is derived from
        GyrB (also known as DNA gyrase subunit B). For example, a suitable dimerizer-binding
       pair member can comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about 75%, at least about
        80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or
        100% amino acid sequence identity to a contiguous stretch of from about 100 amino acids
        to about 200 amino acids (aa), from about 200 aa to about 300 aa, from about 300 aa to
        about 400 aa, from about 400 aa to about 500 aa, from about 500 aa to about 600 aa, from
        about 600 aa to about 700 aa, or from about 700 aa to about 800 aa, of the following GyrB
        amino acid sequence from Escherichiacoli (or to the DNA gyrase subunit B sequence from
        any organism):
        MSNSYDSSSIKVLKGLDAVRKRPGMYIGDTDDGTGLHHMVFEVVDNAIDEALAGH
        CKEIIVTIHADNSVSVQDDGRGIPTGIHPEEGVSAAEVIMTVLHAGGKFDDNSYKVS
        GGLHGVGVSVVNALSQKLELVIQREGKIHRQIYEHGVPQAPLAVTGETEKTGTMV
        RFWPSLETFTNVTEFEYEILAKRLRELSFLNSGVSIRLRDKRDGKEDHFHYEGGIKAF
       VEYLNKNKTPIHPNIFYFSTEKDGIGVEVALQWNDGFQENIYCFTNNIPQRDGGTHL
       AGFRAAMTRTLNAYMDKEGYSKKAKVSATGDDAREGLIAVVSVKVPDPKFSSQT
                                                  24

        KDKLVSSEVKSAVEQQMNELLAEYLLENPTDAKIVVGKIIDAARAREAARRAREM
        TRRKGALDLAGLPGKLADCQERDPALSELYLVEGDSAGGSAKQGRNRKNQAILPL
        KGKILNVEKARFDKMLSSQEVATLITALGCGIGRDEYNPDKLRYHSIIIMTDADVDG
        SHIRTLLLTFFYRQMPEIVERGHVYIAQPPLYKVKKGKQEQYIKDDEAMDQYQISIA
        LDGATLHTNASAPALAGEALEKLVSEYNATQKMINRMERRYPKAMLKELIYQPTL
        TEADLSDEQTVTRWVNALVSELNDKEQHGSQWKFDVHTNAEQNLFEPIVRVRTHG
       VDTDYPLDHEFITGGEYRRICTLGEKLRGLLEEDAFIERGERRQPVASFEQALDWLV
        KESRRGLSIQRYKGLGEMNPEQLWETTMDPESRRMLRVTVKDAIAADQLFTTLMG
        DAVEPRRAFIEENALKAANIDI (SEQ ID NO:73). In some cases, a member of a
        dimerizer-binding pair comprises an amino acid sequence having at least about 75%, at least
        about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%,
        or 100% amino acid sequence identity to amino acids 1-220 of the above-listed GyrB amino
        acid sequence from Escherichia coli.
[00124]         In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) is derived from
        DHFR (also known as dihydrofolate reductase, DHFRP1, and DYR). For example, a
        suitable dimerizer-binding pair member can comprise an amino acid sequence having at
        least about 7 5 %, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about
        95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to the following amino acid
        sequence:
        MVGSLNCIVAVSQNMGIGKNGDLPWPPLRNEFRYFQRMTTTSSVEGKQNLVIMGK
        KTWFSIPEKNRPLKGRINLVLSRELKEPPQGAHFLSRSLDDALKLTEQPELANKVDM
       VWIVGGSSVYKEAMNHPGHLKLFVTRIMQDFESDTFFPEIDLEKYKLLPEYPGVLS
        DVQEEKGIKYKFEVYEKND (SEQ ID NO:74).
[00125]         In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) is derived from
        the DmrB binding domain (i.e., DmrB homodimerization domain). For example, a suitable
        dimerizer-binding pair member can comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about
        75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least
        about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to the following amino acid sequence:
        MASRGVQVETISPGDGRTFPKRGQTCVVHYTGMLEDGKKVDSSRDRNKPFKFMLG
        KQEVIRGWEEGVAQMSVGQRAKLTISPDYAYGATGHPGIIPPHATLVFDVELLKLE
        (SEQ ID NO:75).
[00126]         In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) is derived from a
        PYL protein (also known as abscisic acid receptor and as RCAR). For example a member of
        a subject dimerizer-binding pair can be derived from proteins such as those of Arabidopsis
                                                    25

        thaliana:PYRI, RCAR1(PYL9), PYL1, PYL2, PYL3, PYL4, PYL5, PYL6, PYL7, PYL8
        (RCAR3), PYL10, PYL 11, PYL12, PYL13. For example, a suitable dimerizer-binding pair
        member can comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about 75%, at least about
        80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or
        100% amino acid sequence identity to any of the following amino acid sequences:
[00127]        PYL1O:
        MNGDETKKVESEYIKKHHRHELVESQCSSTLVKHIKAPLHLVWSIVRRFDEPQKYK
        PFISRCVVQGKKLEVGSVREVDLKSGLPATKSTEVLEILDDNEHILGIRIVGGDHRLK
        NYSSTISLHSETIDGKTGTLAIESFVVDVPEGNTKEETCFFVEALIQCNLNSLADVTE
        RLQAESMEKKI (SEQ ID NO:76).
[00128]        PYL11:
        METSQKYHTCGSTLVQTIDAPLSLVWSILRRFDNPQAYKQFVKTCNLSSGDGGEGS
        VREVTVVSGLPAEFSRERLDELDDESHVMMISIIGGDHRLVNYRSKTMAFVAADTE
        EKTVVVESYVVDVPEGNSEEETTSFADTIVGFNLKSLAKLSERVAHLKL                                (SEQ ID
        NO:77)
[00129]        PYL12:
        MKTSQEQHVCGSTVVQTINAPLPLVWSILRRFDNPKTFKHFVKTCKLRSGDGGEGS
        VREVTVVSDLPASFSLERLDELDDESHVMVISIIGGDHRLVNYQSKTTVFVAAEEEK
        TVVVESYVVDVPEGNTEEETTLFADTIVGCNLRSLAKLSEKMMELT                               (SEQ ID
        NO:78).
[00130]        PYL13:
        MESSKQKRCRSSVVETIEAPLPLVWSILRSFDKPQAYQRFVKSCTMRSGGGGGKGG
        EGKGSVRDVTLVSGFPADFSTERLEELDDESHVMVVSIIGGNHRLVNYKSKTKVVA
        SPEDMAKKTVVVESYVVDVPEGTSEEDTIFFVDNIIRYNLTSLAKLTKKMMK                                   (SEQ
        ID NO:79).
[001311        PYL1:
        MANSESSSSPVNEEENSQRISTLHHQTMPSDLTQDEFTQLSQSIAEFHTYQLGNGRC
        SSLLAQRIHAPPETVWSVVRRFDRPQIYKHFIKSCNVSEDFEMRVGCTRDVNVISGL
        PANTSRERLDLLDDDRRVTGFSITGGEHRLRNYKSVTTVHRFEKEEEEERIWTVVLE
        SYVVDVPEGNSEEDTRLFADTVIRLNLQKLASITEAMNRNNNNNNSSQVR                                  (SEQ ID
        NO:80).
[00132]        PYL2:
        MSSSPAVKGLTDEEQKTLEPVIKTYHQFEPDPTTCTSLITQRIHAPASVVWPLIRRFD
        NPERYKHFVKRCRLISGDGDVGSVREVTVISGLPASTSTERLEFVDDDHRVLSFRVV
                                                  26

        GGEHRLKNYKSVTSVNEFLNQDSGKVYTVVLESYTVDIPEGNTEEDTKMFVDTVV
        KLNLQKLGVAATSAPMHDDE (SEQ ID NO:8 1).
[001331        PYL3:
        MNLAPIHDPSSSSTTTTSSSTPYGLTKDEFSTLDSIIRTHHTFPRSPNTCTSLIAHRVDA
        PAHAIWRFVRDFANPNKYKHFIKSCTIRVNGNGIKEIKVGTIREVSVVSGLPASTSVE
        ILEVLDEEKRILSFRVLGGEHRLNNYRSVTSVNEFVVLEKDKKKRVYSVVLESYIVD
        IPQGNTEEDTRMFVDTVVKSNLQNLAVISTASPT    (SEQ ID NO:82).
[00134]        PYL4:
        MLAVHRPSSAVSDGDSVQIPMMIASFQKRFPSLSRDSTAARFHTHEVGPNQCCSAVI
        QEISAPISTVWSVVRRFDNPQAYKHFLKSCSVIGGDGDNVGSLRQVHVVSGLPAAS
        STERLDILDDERHVISFSVVGGDHRLSNYRSVTTLHPSPISGTVVVESYVVDVPPGNT
        KEETCDFVDVIVRCNLQSLAKIAENTAAESKKKMSL (SEQ ID NO:83).
[001351        PYL5:
        MRSPVQLQHGSDATNGFHTLQPHDQTDGPIKRVCLTRGMHVPEHVAMHHTHDVG
        PDQCCSSVVQMIHAPPESVWALVRRFDNPKVYKNFIRQCRIVQGDGLHVGDLREV
        MVVSGLPAVSSTERLEILDEERHVISFSVVGGDHRLKNYRSVTTLHASDDEGTVVV
        ESYIVDVPPGNTEEETLSFVDTIVRCNLQSLARSTNRQ (SEQ ID NO:84).
[001361        PYL6:
        MPTSIQFQRSSTAAEAANATVRNYPHHHQKQVQKVSLTRGMADVPEHVELSHTHV
        VGPSQCFSVVVQDVEAPVSTVWSILSRFEHPQAYKHFVKSCHVVIGDGREVGSVRE
        VRVVSGLPAAFSLERLEIMDDDRHVISFSVVGGDHRLMNYKSVTTVHESEEDSDGK
        KRTRVVESYVVDVPAGNDKEETCSFADTIVRCNLQSLAKLAENTSKFS          (SEQ ID
        NO:85).
[001371        PYL7:
        MEMIGGDDTDTEMYGALVTAQSLRLRHLHHCRENQCTSVLVKYIQAPVHLVWSL
        VRRFDQPQKYKPFISRCTVNGDPEIGCLREVNVKSGLPATTSTERLEQLDDEEHILGI
        NIIGGDHRLKNYSSILTVHPEMIDGRSGTMVMESFVVDVPQGNTKDDTCYFVESLIK
        CNLKSLACVSERLAAQDITNSIATFCNASNGYREKNHTETNL       (SEQ ID NO:86).
[001381        PYL8:
        MEANGIENLTNPNQEREFIRRHHKHELVDNQCSSTLVKHINAPVHIVWSLVRRFDQ
        PQKYKPFISRCVVKGNMEIGTVREVDVKSGLPATRSTERLELLDDNEHILSIRIVGGD
        HRLKNYSSIISLHPETIEGRIGTLVIESFVVDVPEGNTKDETCYFVEALIKCNLKSLAD
        ISERLAVQDTTESRV (SEQ ID NO:87).
                                      27

[001391          PYL9:
        MMDGVEGGTAMYGGLETVQYVRTHHQHLCRENQCTSALVKHIKAPLHLVWSLV
        RRFDQPQKYKPFVSRCTVIGDPEIGSLREVNVKSGLPATTSTERLELLDDEEHILGIKI
        IGGDHRLKNYSSILTVHPEIIEGRAGTMVIESFVVDVPQGNTKDETCYFVEALIRCNL
        KSLADVSERLASQDITQ (SEQ ID NO:88).
[00140]          PYRI:
        MPSELTPEERSELKNSIAEFHTYQLDPGSCSSLHAQRIHAPPELVWSIVRRFDKPQTY
        KHFIKSCSVEQNFEMRVGCTRDVIVISGLPANTSTERLDILDDERRVTGFSIIGGEHR
        LTNYKSVTTVHRFEKENRIWTVVLESYVVDMPEGNSEDDTRMFADTVVKLNLQKL
        ATVAEAMARNSGDGSGSQVT (SEQ ID NO:89).
[00141]         In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) is derived from
        an ABI protein (also known as Abscisic Acid-Insensitive). For example a member of a
        subject dimerizer-binding pair can be derived from proteins such as those of Arabidopsis
        thaliana: ABIl (Also known as ABSCISIC ACID-INSENSITIVE 1, Protein phosphatase
        2C 56, AtPP2C56, P2C56, and PP2C ABIl) and/or ABI2(also known as P2C77, Protein
        phosphatase 2C 77, AtPP2C77, ABSCISIC ACID-INSENSITIVE 2, Protein phosphatase
        2C ABI2, and PP2C ABI2). For example, a suitable dimerizer-binding pair member can
        comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least
        about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid
        sequence identity to a contiguous stretch of from about 100 amino acids to about 110 amino
        acids (aa), from about 110 aa to about 115 aa, from about 115 aa to about 120 aa, from
        about 120 aa to about 130 aa, from about 130 aa to about 140 aa, from about 140 aa to about
         150 aa, from about 150 aa to about 160 aa, from about 160 aa to about 170 aa, from about
         170 aa to about 180 aa, from about 180 aa to about 190 aa, or from about 190 aa to about
        200 aa of any of the following amino acid sequences:
[00142]         ABIl:
        MEEVSPAIAGPFRPFSETQMDFTGIRLGKGYCNNQYSNQDSENGDLMVSLPETSSCS
        VSGSHGSESRKVLISRINSPNLNMKESAAADIVVVDISAGDEINGSDITSEKKMISRT
        ESRSLFEFKSVPLYGFTSICGRRPEMEDAVSTIPRFLQSSSGSMLDGRFDPQSAAHFF
        GVYDGHGGSQVANYCRERMHLALAEEIAKEKPMLCDGDTWLEKWKKALFNSFLR
        VDSEIESVAPETVGSTSVVAVVFPSHIFVANCGDSRAVLCRGKTALPLSVDHKPDRE
        DEAARIEAAGGKVIQWNGARVFGVLAMSRSIGDRYLKPSIIPDPEVTAVKRVKEDD
        CLILASDGVWDVMTDEEACEMARKRILLWHKKNAVAGDASLLADERRKEGKDPA
        AMSAAEYLSKLAIQRGSKDNISVVVVDLKPRRKLKSKPLN                           (SEQ ID NO:90).
                                                  28

[001431          ABI2:
        MDEVSPAVAVPFRPFTDPHAGLRGYCNGESRVTLPESSCSGDGAMKDSSFEINTRQ
        DSLTSSSSAMAGVDISAGDEINGSDEFDPRSMNQSEKKVLSRTESRSLFEFKCVPLY
        GVTSICGRRPEMEDSVSTIPRFLQVSSSSLLDGRVTNGFNPHLSAHFFGVYDGHGGS
        QVANYCRERMHLALTEEIVKEKPEFCDGDTWQEKWKKALFNSFMRVDSEIETVAH
        APETVGSTSVVAVVFPTHIFVANCGDSRAVLCRGKTPLALSVDHKPDRDDEAARIE
        AAGGKVIRWNGARVFGVLAMSRSIGDRYLKPSVIPDPEVTSVRRVKEDDCLILASD
        GLWDVMTNEEVCDLARKRILLWHKKNAMAGEALLPAEKRGEGKDPAAMSAAEY
        LSKMALQKGSKDNISVVVVDLKGIRKFKSKSLN (SEQ ID NO:91).
[00144]          In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) is derived from a
        Cry2 protein (also known as cryptochrome 2). For example a member of a subject dimer
        (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) can be derived from Cry2 proteins from any organism (e.g.,
        a plant) such as, but not limited to, those of Arabidopsis thaliana. For example, a suitable
        dimerizer-binding pair member can comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about
        75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least
        about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to a contiguous stretch of from about 100
        amino acids to about 110 amino acids (aa), from about 110 aa to about 115 aa, from about
        115 aa to about 120 aa, from about 120 aa to about 130 aa, from about 130 aa to about 140
        aa, from about 140 aa to about 150 aa, from about 150 aa to about 160 aa, from about 160
        aa to about 170 aa, from about 170 aa to about 180 aa, from about 180 aa to about 190 aa, or
        from about 190 aa to about 200 aa of any of the following amino acid sequences:
[00145]          Cry2 (Arabidopsisthaliana)
        MKMDKKTIVWFRRDLRIEDNPALAAAAHEGSVFPVFIWCPEEEGQFYPGRASRWW
        MKQSLAHLSQSLKALGSDLTLIKTHNTISAILDCIRVTGATKVVFNHLYDPVSLVRD
        HTVKEKLVERGISVQSYNGDLLYEPWEIYCEKGKPFTSFNSYWKKCLDMSIESVML
        PPPWRLMPITAAAEAIWACSIEELGLENEAEKPSNALLTRAWSPGWSNADKLLNEFI
        EKQLIDYAKNSKKVVGNSTSLLSPYLHFGEISVRHVFQCARMKQIIWARDKNSEGE
        ESADLFLRGIGLREYSRYICFNFPFTHEQSLLSHLRFFPWDADVDKFKAWRQGRTG
        YPLVDAGMRELWATGWMHNRIRVIVSSFAVKFLLLPWKWGMKYFWDTLLDADL
        ECDILGWQYISGSIPDGHELDRLDNPALQGAKYDPEGEYIRQWLPELARLPTEWIHH
        PWDAPLTVLKASGVELGTNYAKPIVDIDTARELLAKAISRTREAQIMIGAAPDEIVA
        DSFEALGANTIKEPGLCPSVSSNDQQVPSAVRYNGSKRVKPEEEEERDMKKSRGFD
        ERELFSTAESSSSSSVFFVSQSCSLASEGKNLEGIQDSSDQITTSLGKNGCK (SEQ ID
        NO:92).
                                                    29

[001461          In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) is derived from
        the CIBI Arabidopsis thalianaprotein (also known as transcription factor bHLH63). For
        example, a suitable dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) member can comprise an amino
        acid sequence having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least
        about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to
        a contiguous stretch of from about 100 amino acids to about 110 amino acids (aa), from
        about 110 aa to about 115 aa, from about 115 aa to about 120 aa, from about 120 aa to about
         130 aa, from about 130 aa to about 140 aa, from about 140 aa to about 150 aa, from about
         150 aa to about 160 aa, from about 160 aa to about 170 aa, from about 170 aa to about 180
        aa, from about 180 aa to about 190 aa, or from about 190 aa to about 200 aa of the
        following amino acid sequence:
        MNGAIGGDLLLNFPDMSVLERQRAHLKYLNPTFDSPLAGFFADSSMITGGEMDSYL
        STAGLNLPMMYGETTVEGDSRLSISPETTLGTGNFKKRKFDTETKDCNEKKKKMT
        MNRDDLVEEGEEEKSKITEQNNGSTKSIKKMKHKAKKEENNFSNDSSKVTKELEKT
        DYIHVRARRGQATDSHSIAERVRREKISERMKFLQDLVPGCDKITGKAGMLDEIINY
        VQSLQRQIEFLSMKLAIVNPRPDFDMDDIFAKEVASTPMTVVPSPEMVLSGYSHEM
        VHSGYSSEMVNSGYLHVNPMQQVNTSSDPLSCFNNGEAPSMWDSHVQNLYGNLG
        V (SEQ ID NO:93).
[00147]          In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) is derived from
        the GAI Arabidopsis thalianaprotein (also known as Gibberellic Acid Insensitive, and
        DELLA protein GAI). For example, a suitable dimerizer-binding pair member can comprise
        an amino acid sequence having at least about   7 5 %, at least about 80%, at least about 85%,
        at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence
        identity to a contiguous stretch of from about 100 amino acids to about 110 amino acids
        (aa), from about 110 aa to about 115 aa, from about 115 aa to about 120 aa, from about 120
        aa to about 130 aa, from about 130 aa to about 140 aa, from about 140 aa to about 150 aa,
        from about 150 aa to about 160 aa, from about 160 aa to about 170 aa, from about 170 aa to
        about 180 aa, from about 180 aa to about 190 aa, or from about 190 aa to about 200 aa of
        the following amino acid sequence:
        MKRDHHHHHHQDKKTMMMNEEDDGNGMDELLAVLGYKVRSSEMADVAQKLEQ
        LEVMMSNVQEDDLSQLATETVHYNPAELYTWLDSMLTDLNPPSSNAEYDLKAIPG
        DAILNQFAIDSASSSNQGGGGDTYTTNKRLKCSNGVVETTTATAESTRHVVLVDSQ
        ENGVRLVHALLACAEAVQKENLTVAEALVKQIGFLAVSQIGAMRKVATYFAEALA
        RRIYRLSPSQSPIDHSLSDTLQMHFYETCPYLKFAHFTANQAILEAFQGKKRVHVIDF
                                                   30

        SMSQGLQWPALMQALALRPGGPPVFRLTGIGPPAPDNFDYLHEVGCKLAHLAEAIH
        VEFEYRGFVANTLADLDASMLELRPSEIESVAVNSVFELHKLLGRPGAIDKVLGVV
        NQIKPEIFTVVEQESNHNSPIFLDRFTESLHYYSTLFDSLEGVPSGQDKVMSEVYLGK
        QICNVVACDGPDRVERHETLSQWRNRFGSAGFAAAHIGSNAFKQASMLLALFNGG
        EGYRVEESDGCLMLGWHTRPLIATSAWKLSTN                       (SEQ ID NO:94).
[001481         In some cases, a member of a dimer (e.g., a dimerizer-binding pair) is derived from a
        GIDI Arabidopsis thalianaprotein (also known as Gibberellin receptor GID 1). For
        example, a suitable dimer member can comprise an amino acid sequence having at least
        about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at
        least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to a contiguous stretch of from
        about 100 amino acids to about 110 amino acids (aa), from about 110 aa to about 115 aa,
        from about 115 aa to about 120 aa, from about 120 aa to about 130 aa, from about 130 aa to
        about 140 aa, from about 140 aa to about 150 aa, from about 150 aa to about 160 aa, from
        about 160 aa to about 170 aa, from about 170 aa to about 180 aa, from about 180 aa to about
        190 aa, or from about 190 aa to about 200 aa of any of the following amino acid sequences:
[00149]         GID1A:
        MAASDEVNLIESRTVVPLNTWVLISNFKVAYNILRRPDGTFNRHLAEYLDRKVTAN
        ANPVDGVFSFDVLIDRRINLLSRVYRPAYADQEQPPSILDLEKPVDGDIVPVILFFHG
        GSFAHSSANSAIYDTLCRRLVGLCKCVVVSVNYRRAPENPYPCAYDDGWIALNWV
        NSRSWLKSKKDSKVHIFLAGDSSGGNIAHNVALRAGESGIDVLGNILLNPMFGGNE
        RTESEKSLDGKYFVTVRDRDWYWKAFLPEGEDREHPACNPFSPRGKSLEGVSFPKS
        LVVVAGLDLIRDWQLAYAEGLKKAGQEVKLMHLEKATVGFYLLPNNNHFHNVM
        DEISAFVNAEC (SEQ ID NO:95).
[00150]         GIDIB:
        MAGGNEVNLNECKRIVPLNTWVLISNFKLAYKVLRRPDGSFNRDLAEFLDRKVPA
        NSFPLDGVFSFDHVDSTTNLLTRIYQPASLLHQTRHGTLELTKPLSTTEIVPVLIFFHG
        GSFTHSSANSAIYDTFCRRLVTICGVVVVSVDYRRSPEHRYPCAYDDGWNALNWV
        KSRVWLQSGKDSNVYVYLAGDSSGGNIAHNVAVRATNEGVKVLGNILLHPMFGG
        QERTQSEKTLDGKYFVTIQDRDWYWRAYLPEGEDRDHPACNPFGPRGQSLKGVNF
        PKSLVVVAGLDLVQDWQLAYVDGLKKTGLEVNLLYLKQATIGFYFLPNNDHFHCL
        MEELNKFVHSIEDSQSKSSPVLLTP (SEQ ID NO:96)
[00151]         GIDIC:
        MAGSEEVNLIESKTVVPLNTWVLISNFKLAYNLLRRPDGTFNRHLAEFLDRKVPAN
        ANPVNGVFSFDVIIDRQTNLLSRVYRPADAGTSPSITDLQNPVDGEIVPVIVFFHGGS
                                                  31

        FAHSSANSAIYDTLCRRLVGLCGAVVVSVNYRRAPENRYPCAYDDGWAVLKWVN
        SSSWLRSKKDSKVRIFLAGDSSGGNIVHNVAVRAVESRIDVLGNILLNPMFGGTERT
        ESEKRLDGKYFVTVRDRDWYWRAFLPEGEDREHPACSPFGPRSKSLEGLSFPKSLV
        VVAGLDLIQDWQLKYAEGLKKAGQEVKLLYLEQATIGFYLLPNNNHFHTVMDEIA
        AFVNAECQ (SEQ ID NO:97).
        Dimerizers
[00152]         Dimerizers ("dimerizing agents) that can provide for dimerization of a first member
        of a dimerizer-binding pair and a second member of a dimerizer-binding pair include, e.g.
        (where the dimerizer is in parentheses following the dimerizer-binding pair:
        a) FKBP and FKBP (rapamycin);
        b) FKBP and CnA (rapamycin);
        c) FKBP and cyclophilin (rapamycin);
        d) FKBP and FRG (rapamycin);
        e) GyrB and GyrB (coumermycin);
        f) DHFR and DHFR (methotrexate);
        g) DmrB and DmrB (AP20187);
        h) PYL and ABI (abscisic acid);
        i) Cry2 and CIBI (blue light); and
       j) GAI and    GIDI (gibberellin).
[00153]         As noted above, rapamycin can serve as a dimerizer. Alternatively, a rapamycin
        derivative or analog can be used. See, e.g., W096/41865; WO 99/36553; WO 01/14387;
        and Ye et al (1999) Science 283:88-91. For example, analogs, homologs, derivatives and
        other compounds related structurally to rapamycin ("rapalogs") include, among others,
        variants of rapamycin having one or more of the following modifications relative to
        rapamycin: demethylation, elimination or replacement of the methoxy at C7, C42 and/or
        C29; elimination, derivatization or replacement of the hydroxy at C13, C43 and/or C28;
        reduction, elimination or derivatization of the ketone at C14, C24 and/or C30; replacement
        of the 6-membered pipecolate ring with a 5-membered prolyl ring; and alternative
        substitution on the cyclohexyl ring or replacement of the cyclohexyl ring with a substituted
        cyclopentyl ring. Additional information is presented in, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,525,610;
        5,310,903 5,362,718; and 5,527,907. Selective epimerization of the C-28 hydroxyl group
        has been described; see, e.g., WO 01/14387. Additional synthetic dimerizing agents suitable
        for use as an alternative to rapamycin include those described in U.S. Patent Publication No.
        2012/0130076.
                                                  32

[00154]         Rapamycin has the structure:
                  43
           MeO
                                               eH
             HO     40                MeO   30 0
                           7
                           Rapamycin
[00155]         Suitable rapalogs include, e.g.,
                    43
            MeO
                           11illl       24
                                           O      geOH
                       N                       28
                                                  300
             HO0 14       00MO'
                  13           QWe
                       28-epirapamycin
[00156]         Also suitable as a rapalog is a compound of the formula:
           MeO
                        e         O RRb      i        2
                                        28        4
[00157]         where n is 1 or 2; R2 and R4 are independently H, or a substituted or unsubstituted
        aliphatic or acyl moiety; one of Ra and R7 is H and the other is halo, RA, ORA, SRA,
                                                        33

        OC(O)R A, -OC(O)NRA R B, -NRA RB, -NR BC(OR)R A, NRBC(O)ORA, -NRBSO 2 RA, or
       NR BSO 2 NRARB'; or R" and R 7, taken together, are H in the tetraene moiety:
                9 H
[00158]         where RA is H or a substituted or unsubstituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, aryl, or
        heteroaryl moiety and where RB and RB' are independently H, OH, or a substituted or
       unsubstituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, aryl, or heteroaryl moiety.
[00159]         As noted above, coumermycin can serve as a dimerizing agent. Alternatively, a
        coumermycin analog can be used. See, e.g., Farrar et al. (1996) Nature 383:178-181; and
        U.S. Pat. No. 6,916,846.
[00160]         As noted above, in some cases, the dimerizing agent is methotrexate, e.g., a non
        cytotoxic, homo-bifunctional methotrexate dimer. See, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 8,236,925.
        Intracellular signaling domain
[00161]         Intracellular signaling domains suitable for use in a CAR of the present disclosure
        include any desired signaling domain that provides a distinct and detectable signal (e.g.,
        increased production of one or more cytokines by the cell; change in transcription of a target
        gene; change in activity of a protein; change in cell behavior, e.g., cell death; cellular
       proliferation; cellular differentiation; cell survival; modulation of cellular signaling
        responses; etc.) in response to activation of the CAR (i.e., activated by antigen and
        dimerizing agent). In some embodiments, the intracellular signaling domain includes at least
        one (e.g., one, two, three, four, five, six, etc.) ITAM motifs as described below. In some
        embodiments, the intracellular signaling domain includes DAP1O/CD28 type signaling
        chains. In some embodiments, the intracellular signaling domain is not covalently attached
        to the membrane bound CAR, but is instead diffused in the cytoplasm.
       ITAM
[00162]         Intracellular signaling domains suitable for use in a CAR of the present disclosure
        include immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM)-containing intracellular
        signaling polypeptides. An ITAM motif is YX 1X 2L/I, where X 1 and X 2 are independently
        any amino acid (SEQ ID NO: 130). In some cases, the intracellular signaling domain of a
        subject CAR comprises 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 ITAM motifs. In some cases, an ITAM motif is
       repeated twice in an intracellular signaling domain, where the first and second instances of
        the ITAM motif are separated from one another by 6 to 8 amino acids, e.g.,
                                                      34

        (YX 1 X2 L/I)(X 3 )n(YXiX 2 L/I), where n is an integer from 6 to 8, and each of the 6-8 X 3 can
       be any amino acid (SEQ ID NO:13 1). In some cases, the intracellular signaling domain of a
        subject CAR comprises 3 ITAM motifs.
[001631         A suitable intracellular signaling domain can be an ITAM motif-containing portion
       that is derived from a polypeptide that contains an ITAM motif. For example, a suitable
        intracellular signaling domain can be an ITAM motif-containing domain from any ITAM
       motif-containing protein. Thus, a suitable intracellular signaling domain need not contain
       the entire sequence of the entire protein from which it is derived. Examples of suitable
        ITAM motif-containing polypeptides include, but are not limited to: DAP 12; FCER1G (Fc
        epsilon receptor I gamma chain); CD3D (CD3 delta); CD3E (CD3 epsilon); CD3G (CD3
        gamma); CD3Z (CD3 zeta); and CD79A (antigen receptor complex-associated protein alpha
        chain).
[00164]         In some cases, the intracellular signaling domain is derived from DAP12 (also
       known as TYROBP; TYRO protein tyrosine kinase binding protein; KARAP; PLOSL;
        DNAX-activation protein 12; KAR-associated protein; TYRO protein tyrosine kinase
       binding protein; killer activating receptor associated protein; killer-activating receptor
        associated protein; etc.). For example, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide
       can comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least
        about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid
        sequence identity to any of the following amino acid sequences (4 isoforms):
       MGGLEPCSRLLLLPLLLAVSGLRPVQAQAQSDCSCSTVSPGVLAGIVMGDLVLTVLI
       ALAVYFLGRLVPRGRGAAEAATRKQRITETESPYQELQGQRSDVYSDLNTQRPYY
       K (SEQ ID NO:98);
        MGGLEPCSRLLLLPLLLAVSGLRPVQAQAQSDCSCSTVSPGVLAGIVMGDLVLTVLI
       ALAVYFLGRLVPRGRGAAEATRKQRITETESPYQELQGQRSDVYSDLNTQRPYYK
        (SEQ ID NO:99);
       MGGLEPCSRLLLLPLLLAVSDCSCSTVSPGVLAGIVMGDLVLTVLIALAVYFLGRLV
        PRGRGAAEAATRKQRITETESPYOELQGQRSDVYSDLNTQRPYYK (SEQ ID
       NO:100); or
       MGGLEPCSRLLLLPLLLAVSDCSCSTVSPGVLAGIVMGDLVLTVLIALAVYFLGRLV
       PRGRGAAEATRKQRITETESPYOELQGQRSDVYSDLNTQRPYYK                                   (SEQ ID NO: 101),
       where the ITAM motifs are in bold and are underlined.
[00165]         Likewise, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an
        ITAM motif-containing portion of the full length DAP12 amino acid sequence. Thus, a
                                                     35

        suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid sequence
        having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at
        least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to the following
        amino acid sequence:
        ESPYQELQGQRSDVYSDLNTQ (SEQ ID NO: 102), where the ITAM motifs are in bold
        and are underlined.
[00166]         In some cases, the intracellular signaling domain is derived from FCER1G (also
       known as FCRG; Fc epsilon receptor I gamma chain; Fc receptor gamma-chain; fc-epsilon
       RI-gamma; fcRgamma; fceRl gamma; high affinity immunoglobulin epsilon receptor
        subunit gamma; immunoglobulin E receptor, high affinity, gamma chain; etc.). For
        example, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid
        sequence having at least about     7 5 %, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about
        90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100% amino acid sequence identity to the
        following amino acid sequence:
       MIPAVVLLLLLLVEQAAALGEPQLCYILDAILFLYGIVLTLLYCRLKIQVRKAAITSY
       EKSDGVYTGLSTRNQETYETLKHEKPPQ (SEQ ID NO:103), where the ITAM motifs
        are in bold and are underlined.
[00167]         Likewise, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an
        ITAM motif-containing portion of the full length FCER1G amino acid sequence. Thus, a
        suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid sequence
       having at least about   7 5 %, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at
        least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to the following
        amino acid sequence:
       DGVYTGLSTRNQETYETLKHE (SEQ ID NO: 104), where the ITAM motifs are in bold
        and are underlined.
[00168]         In some cases, the intracellular signaling domain is derived from T-cell surface
        glycoprotein CD3 delta chain (also known as CD3D; CD3-DELTA; T3D; CD3 antigen,
        delta subunit; CD3 delta; CD3d antigen, delta polypeptide (TiT3 complex); OKT3, delta
        chain; T-cell receptor T3 delta chain; T-cell surface glycoprotein CD3 delta chain; etc.). For
        example, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid
        sequence having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about
        90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to a
        contiguous stretch of from about 100 amino acids to about 110 amino acids (aa), from about
        110 aa to about 115 aa, from about 115 aa to about 120 aa, from about 120 aa to about 130
                                                       36

        aa, from about 130 aa to about 140 aa, from about 140 aa to about 150 aa, or from about 150
        aa to about 170 aa, of either of the following amino acid sequences (2 isoforms):
        MEHSTFLSGLVLATLLSQVSPFKIPIEELEDRVFVNCNTSITWVEGTVGTLLSDITRL
        DLGKRILDPRGIYRCNGTDIYKDKESTVQVHYRMCQSCVELDPATVAGIIVTDVIAT
        LLLALGVFCFAGHETGRLSGAADTQALLRNDQVYOPLRDRDDAQYSHLGGNWAR
       NK (SEQ ID NO:105) or
        MEHSTFLSGLVLATLLSQVSPFKIPIEELEDRVFVNCNTSITWVEGTVGTLLSDITRL
        DLGKRILDPRGIYRCNGTDIYKDKESTVQVHYRTADTQALLRNDQVYOPLRDRDD
       AQYSHLGGNWARNK (SEQ ID NO: 106) , where the ITAM motifs are in bold and are
       underlined.
[001691          Likewise, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an
       ITAM motif-containing portion of the full length CD3 delta amino acid sequence. Thus, a
        suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid sequence
       having at least about   7 5 %, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at
        least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to the following
        amino acid sequence:
       DQVYQPLRDRDDAQYSHLGGN (SEQ ID NO:107), where the ITAM motifs are in bold
        and are underlined.
[00170]          In some cases, the intracellular signaling domain is derived from T-cell surface
        glycoprotein CD3 epsilon chain (also known as CD3e, T-cell surface antigen T3/Leu-4
        epsilon chain, T-cell surface glycoprotein CD3 epsilon chain, A1504783, CD3, CD3epsilon,
        T3e, etc.). For example, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise
        an amino acid sequence having at least about     7 5 %, at least about 80%, at least about 85%,
        at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence
        identity to a contiguous stretch of from about 100 amino acids to about 110 amino acids
        (aa), from about 110 aa to about 115 aa, from about 115 aa to about 120 aa, from about 120
        aa to about 130 aa, from about 130 aa to about 140 aa, from about 140 aa to about 150 aa, or
        from about 150 aa to about 205 aa, of the following amino acid sequence:
       MQSGTHWRVLGLCLLSVGVWGQDGNEEMGGITQTPYKVSISGTTVILTCPQYPGSE
       ILWQHNDKNIGGDEDDKNIGSDEDHLSLKEFSELEQSGYYVCYPRGSKPEDANFYL
       YLRARVCENCMEMDVMSVATIVIVDICITGGLLLLVYYWSKNRKAKAKPVTRGAG
       AGGRQRGQNKERPPPVPNPDYEPIRKGQRDLYSGLNQRRI (SEQ ID NO:108), where
        the ITAM motifs are in bold and are underlined.
                                                     37

[001711         Likewise, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an
        ITAM motif-containing portion of the full length CD3 epsilon amino acid sequence. Thus, a
        suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid sequence
        having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at
        least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to the following
        amino acid sequence:
        NPDYEPIRKGQRDLYSGLNQR (SEQ ID NO: 109), where the ITAM motifs are in bold
        and are underlined.
[00172]         In some cases, the intracellular signaling domain is derived from T-cell surface
        glycoprotein CD3 gamma chain (also known as CD3G, T-cell receptor T3 gamma chain,
        CD3-GAMMA, T3G, gamma polypeptide (TiT3 complex), etc.). For example, a suitable
        intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid sequence having at
        least about 7 5 %, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about
        95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to a contiguous stretch of
        from about 100 amino acids to about 110 amino acids (aa), from about 110 aa to about 115
        aa, from about 115 aa to about 120 aa, from about 120 aa to about 130 aa, from about 130
        aa to about 140 aa, from about 140 aa to about 150 aa, or from about 150 aa to about 180 aa,
        of the following amino acid sequence:
        MEQGKGLAVLILAIILLQGTLAQSIKGNHLVKVYDYQEDGSVLLTCDAEAKNITWF
        KDGKMIGFLTEDKKKWNLGSNAKDPRGMYQCKGSQNKSKPLQVYYRMCQNCIEL
        NAATISGFLFAEIVSIFVLAVGVYFIAGQDGVRQSRASDKQTLLPNDQLYOPLKDRE
        DDQYSHLQGNQLRRN (SEQ ID NO:1 10), where the ITAM motifs are in bold and are
        underlined.
[00173]         Likewise, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an
        ITAM motif-containing portion of the full length CD3 gamma amino acid sequence. Thus, a
        suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid sequence
        having at least about   7 5 %, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at
        least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to the following
        amino acid sequence:
        DQLYQPLKDREDDQYSHLQGN (SEQ ID NO: 111), where the ITAM motifs are in bold
        and are underlined.
[00174]         In some cases, the intracellular signaling domain is derived from T-cell surface
        glycoprotein CD3 zeta chain (also known as CD3Z, T-cell receptor T3 zeta chain, CD247,
        CD3-ZETA, CD3H, CD3Q, T3Z, TCRZ, etc.). For example, a suitable intracellular
                                                      38

        signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid sequence having at least about
        75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least
        about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to a contiguous stretch of from about
        100 amino acids to about 110 amino acids (aa), from about 110 aa to about 115 aa, from
        about 115 aa to about 120 aa, from about 120 aa to about 130 aa, from about 130 aa to about
        140 aa, from about 140 aa to about 150 aa, or from about 150 aa to about 160 aa, of either
        of the following amino acid sequences (2 isoforms):
        MKWKALFTAAILQAQLPITEAQSFGLLDPKLCYLLDGILFIYGVILTALFLRVKFSRS
       ADAPAYQQGQNQLYNELNLGRREEYDVLDKRRGRDPEMGGKPRRKNPQEGLYN
       ELQKDKMAEAYSEIGMKGERRRGKGHDGLYOGLSTATKDTYDALHMQALPPR
        (SEQ ID NO:112) or
        MKWKALFTAAILQAQLPITEAQSFGLLDPKLCYLLDGILFIYGVILTALFLRVKFSRS
       ADAPAYQQGQNQLYNELNLGRREEYDVLDKRRGRDPEMGGKPQRRKNPQEGLY
        NELQKDKMAEAYSEIGMKGERRRGKGHDGLYOGL STATKDTYDALHMQALPPR(
        SEQ ID NO: 113) , where the ITAM motifs are in bold and are underlined.
[00175]         Likewise, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an
        ITAM motif-containing portion of the full length CD3 zeta amino acid sequence. Thus, a
        suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid sequence
       having at least about   7 5 %, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at
        least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to any of the
        following amino acid sequences:
       RVKFSRSADAPAYQQGQNQLYNELNLGRREEYDVLDKRRGRDPEMGGKPRRKNP
        QEGLYNELQKDKMAEAYSEIGMKGERRRGKGHDGLYOGL STATKDTYDALHMQ
       ALPPR (SEQ ID NO:18);
       NQLYNELNLGRREEYDVLDKR (SEQ ID NO: 114);
        EGLYNELQKDKMAEAYSEIGMK (SEQ ID NO: 115); or
        DGLYOGLSTATKDTYDALHMQ (SEQ ID NO: 116), where the ITAM motifs are in bold
        and are underlined.
[00176]         In some cases, the intracellular signaling domain is derived from CD79A (also
       known as B-cell antigen receptor complex-associated protein alpha chain; CD79a antigen
        (immunoglobulin-associated alpha); MB-I membrane glycoprotein; ig-alpha; membrane
       bound immunoglobulin-associated protein; surface IgM-associated protein; etc.). For
        example, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid
        sequence having at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about
                                                     39

        90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to a
        contiguous stretch of from about 100 amino acids to about 110 amino acids (aa), from about
        110 aa to about 115 aa, from about 115 aa to about 120 aa, from about 120 aa to about 130
        aa, from about 130 aa to about 150 aa, from about 150 aa to about 200 aa, or from about 200
        aa to about 220 aa, of either of the following amino acid sequences (2 isoforms):
[001771          MPGGPGVLQALPATIFLLFLLSAVYLGPGCQALWMHKVPASLMVSLGEDA
        HFQCPHNSSNNANVTWWRVLHGNYTWPPEFLGPGEDPNGTLIIQNVNKSHGGIYV
        CRVQEGNESYQQSCGTYLRVRQPPPRPFLDMGEGTKNRIITAEGIILLFCAVVPGTLL
        LFRKRWQNEKLGLDAGDEYEDENLYEGLNLDDCSMYEDISRGLQGTYQDVGSLN
        IGDVQLEKP (SEQ ID NO:117); or
[001781          MPGGPGVLQALPATIFLLFLLSAVYLGPGCQALWMHKVPASLMVSLGEDA
        HFQCPHNSSNNANVTWWRVLHGNYTWPPEFLGPGEDPNEPPPRPFLDMGEGTKNR
        IITAEGIILLFCAVVPGTLLLFRKRWQNEKLGLDAGDEYEDENLYEGLNLDDCSMYE
        DISRGLQGTYQDVGSLNIGDVQLEKP (SEQ ID NO: 118) , where the ITAM motifs are
        in bold and are underlined.
[00179]          Likewise, a suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an
        ITAM motif-containing portion of the full length CD79A amino acid sequence. Thus, a
        suitable intracellular signaling domain polypeptide can comprise an amino acid sequence
        having at least about   7 5 %, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at
        least about 95%, at least about 98%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to the following
        amino acid sequence: ENLYEGLNLDDCSMYEDISRG (SEQ ID NO: 119), where the
        ITAM motifs are in bold and are underlined.
        DAP1O/CD28
[00180]          Intracellular signaling domains suitable for use in a CAR of the present disclosure
        include a DAP1O/CD28 type signaling chain.
[00181]          An example of a DAP10 signaling chain is the amino acid sequence is:
        RPRRSPAQDGKVYINMPGRG (SEQ ID NO: 120). In some embodiments, a suitable
        intracellular signaling domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least about 85%,
        at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or at least about 99%, amino acid
        sequence identity to the entire length of the amino acid sequence
        RPRRSPAQDGKVYINMPGRG (SEQ ID NO:120).
[00182]          An example of a CD28 signaling chain is the amino acid sequence is
        FWVLVVVGGVLACYSLLVTVAFIIFWVRSKRSRLLHSDYMNMTPRRPGPTRKHYQ
        PYAPPRDFAAYRS (SEQ ID NO: 121). In some embodiments, a suitable intracellular
                                                      40

        signaling domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least about 85%, at least
        about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, or at least about 99%, amino acid
        sequence identity to the entire length of the amino acid sequence
        FWVLVVVGGVLACYSLLVTVAFIIFWVRSKRSRLLHSDYMNMTPRRPGPTRKHYQ
        PYAPPRDFAAYRS (SEQ ID NO:121).
        ZAP70
[00183]         Intracellular signaling domains suitable for use in a CAR of the present disclosure
        include a ZAP70 polypeptide, e.g., a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence
        having at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 98%, at
        least about 99%, or 100%, amino acid sequence identity to a contiguous stretch of from
        about 300 amino acids to about 400 amino acids, from about 400 amino acids to about 500
        amino acids, or from about 500 amino acids to 619 amino acids, of the following amino
        acid sequence:
        MPDPAAHLPFFYGSISRAEAEEHLKLAGMADGLFLLRQCLRSLGGYVLSLVHDVRF
        HHFPIERQLNGTYAIAGGKAHCGPAELCEFYSRDPDGLPCNLRKPCNRPSGLEPQPG
        VFDCLRDAMVRDYVRQTWKLEGEALEQAIISQAPQVEKLIATTAHERMPWYHSSL
        TREEAERKLYSGAQTDGKFLLRPRKEQGTYALSLIYGKTVYHYLISQDKAGKYCIP
        EGTKFDTLWQLVEYLKLKADGLIYCLKEACPNSSASNASGAAAPTLPAHPSTLTHP
        QRRIDTLNSDGYTPEPARITSPDKPRPMPMDTSVYESPYSDPEELKDKKLFLKRDNL
        LIADIELGCGNFGSVRQGVYRMRKKQIDVAIKVLKQGTEKADTEEMMREAQIMHQ
        LDNPYIVRLIGVCQAEALMLVMEMAGGGPLHKFLVGKREEIPVSNVAELLHQVSM
        GMKYLEEKNFVHRDLAARNVLLVNRHYAKISDFGLSKALGADDSYYTARSAGKW
        PLKWYAPECINFRKFSSRSDVWSYGVTMWEALSYGQKPYKKMKGPEVMAFIEQG
        KRMECPPECPPELYALMSDCWIYKWEDRPDFLTVEQRMRACYYSLASKVEGPPGS
        TQKAEAACA (SEQ ID NO:36).
        Additional sequences
[00184]         The first and/or the second polypeptide of a subject CAR can further include one or
        more additional polypeptide domains, where such domains include, but are not limited to, a
        signal sequence; an epitope tag; an affinity domain; and a polypeptide that produces a
        detectable signal.
        Signal sequences
[00185]         Signal sequences that are suitable for use in a subject CAR, e.g., in the first
        polypeptide of a subject CAR, include any eukaryotic signal sequence, including a
        naturally-occurring signal sequence, a synthetic (e.g., man-made) signal sequence, etc.
                                                    41

        Epitope tag
[001861          Suitable epitope tags include, but are not limited to, hemagglutinin (HA; e.g.,
        YPYDVPDYA (SEQ ID NO:122); FLAG (e.g., DYKDDDDK (SEQ ID NO:123); c-myc
        (e.g., EQKLISEEDL; SEQ ID NO:4), and the like.
        Affinity domain
[00187]         Affinity domains include peptide sequences that can interact with a binding partner,
        e.g., such as one immobilized on a solid support, useful for identification or purification.
        DNA sequences encoding multiple consecutive single amino acids, such as histidine, when
        fused to the expressed protein, may be used for one-step purification of the recombinant
        protein by high affinity binding to a resin column, such as nickel sepharose. Exemplary
        affinity domains include His5 (HHHHH) (SEQ ID NO: 124), HisX6 (HHHHHH) (SEQ ID
        NO:125), C-myc (EQKLISEEDL) (SEQ ID NO:4), Flag (DYKDDDDK) (SEQ ID
        NO:123), StrepTag (WSHPQFEK) (SEQ ID NO:126), hemagluttinin, e.g., HA Tag
        (YPYDVPDYA) (SEQ ID NO: 122), GST, thioredoxin, cellulose binding domain, RYIRS
        (SEQ ID NO: 127), Phe-His-His-Thr (SEQ ID NO: 128), chitin binding domain, S-peptide,
        T7 peptide, SH2 domain, C-end RNA tag, WEAAAREACCRECCARA (SEQ ID NO:129),
        metal binding domains, e.g., zinc binding domains or calcium binding domains such as
        those from calcium-binding proteins, e.g., calmodulin, troponin C, calcineurin B, myosin
        light chain, recoverin, S-modulin, visinin, VILIP, neurocalcin, hippocalcin, frequenin,
        caltractin, calpain large-subunit, S100 proteins, parvalbumin, calbindin D9K, calbindin
        D28K, and calretinin, inteins, biotin, streptavidin, MyoD, Id, leucine zipper sequences, and
        maltose binding protein.
        Detectable signal-producingpolypeptides
[00188]          Suitable detectable signal-producing proteins include, e.g., fluorescent proteins;
        enzymes that catalyze a reaction that generates a detectable signal as a product; and the like.
[00189]          Suitable fluorescent proteins include, but are not limited to, green fluorescent protein
        (GFP) or variants thereof, blue fluorescent variant of GFP (BFP), cyan fluorescent variant
        of GFP (CFP), yellow fluorescent variant of GFP (YFP), enhanced GFP (EGFP), enhanced
        CFP (ECFP), enhanced YFP (EYFP), GFPS65T, Emerald, Topaz (TYFP), Venus, Citrine,
        mCitrine, GFPuv, destabilised EGFP (dEGFP), destabilised ECFP (dECFP), destabilised
        EYFP (dEYFP), mCFPm, Cerulean, T-Sapphire, CyPet, YPet, mKO, HcRed, t-HcRed,
        DsRed, DsRed2, DsRed-monomer, J-Red, dimer2, t-dimer2(12), mRFP1, pocilloporin,
        Renilla GFP, Monster GFP, paGFP, Kaede protein and kindling protein, Phycobiliproteins
        and Phycobiliprotein conjugates including B-Phycoerythrin, R-Phycoerythrin and
                                                    42

        Allophycocyanin. Other examples of fluorescent proteins include mHoneydew, mBanana,
        mOrange, dTomato, tdTomato, mTangerine, mStrawberry, mCherry, mGrapel,
        mRaspberry, mGrape2, mPlum (Shaner et al. (2005) Nat. Methods 2:905-909), and the like.
        Any of a variety of fluorescent and colored proteins from Anthozoan species, as described
        in, e.g., Matz et al. (1999) Nature Biotechnol. 17:969-973, is suitable for use.
[00190]           Suitable enzymes include, but are not limited to, horse radish peroxidase (HRP),
        alkaline phosphatase (AP), beta-galactosidase (GAL), glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase,
        beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase, P-glucuronidase, invertase, Xanthine Oxidase, firefly
        luciferase, glucose oxidase (GO), and the like.
        Recombination of sequences
[00191]           In certain instances, sequences of the polypeptides of a CAR, e.g., CAR domains,
        may be rearranged or deleted in a cell through the use of site-specific recombination
        technology. In certain embodiments, the cellular activation-related response to a particular
        CAR can be changed by site-specific recombination, e.g., a first intracellular signaling
        domain of a CAR eliciting a first activation-related response may be exchanged for a second
        intracellular signaling domain eliciting a second activation-related response. In certain
        instances, the response to a particular dimerizer of a CAR can be changed by site-specific
        recombination, e.g., a first dimerizer-binding pair causing the dimerization of a CAR in the
        presence of a first dimerizer may be exchanged for a second dimerizer-binding pair causing
        the dimerization of the CAR in the presence of a second dimerizer. As will be clear to one
        skilled in the art, site-specific recombination can be used in a cell to exchange any domain
        or sequence of a CAR with any other domain or sequence as disclosed herein. As will also
        be clear to one skilled in the art, site-specific recombination can be used in a cell to delete
        any domain or sequence of a CAR. Such exchange and excision of sequences and domains
        is known in the art, see, e.g., domain switching in signalobodies as described in Tone et al.
        (2013) Biotechnology andBioengineering,3219-3226, the disclosure of which is disclosed
        herein by reference. Mechanisms and requirements for performing site-specific
        recombination in vivo are also well known in the art, see, e.g., Grindley et al. (2006) Annual
        Review ofBiochemistry, 567-605 and Tropp (2012) Molecular Biology (Jones & Bartlett
        Publishers, Sudbury, MA), the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
        NUCLEIC ACIDS
[00192]           The present disclosure provides a nucleic acid that comprises a nucleotide sequence
        encoding the first and/or the second polypeptide of a heterodimeric, conditionally active
        CAR of the present disclosure. A nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding
                                                     43

        the first and/or the second polypeptide of a heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of the
        present disclosure will in some embodiments be DNA, including, e.g., a recombinant
        expression vector. A nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the first
        and/or the second polypeptide of a heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of the present
        disclosure will in some embodiments be RNA, e.g., in vitro synthesized RNA.
[00193]          In some cases, a nucleic acid of the present disclosure comprises a nucleotide
        sequence encoding only the first polypeptide (and not the second polypeptide) of a
        heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of the present disclosure. In some cases, a nucleic
        acid of the present disclosure comprises a nucleotide sequence encoding only the second
        polypeptide (and not the first polypeptide) of a heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of
        the present disclosure. In some cases, a nucleic acid of the present disclosure comprises a
        nucleotide sequence encoding both the first polypeptide and the second polypeptide of a
        heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of the present disclosure.
[00194]          In some cases, a subject nucleic acid provides for production of a CAR of the
        present disclosure, e.g., in a mammalian cell. In other cases, a subject nucleic acid provides
        for amplification of the CAR-encoding nucleic acid.
[00195]          A nucleotide sequence encoding the first and/or the second polypeptide of a CAR of
        the present disclosure can be operably linked to a transcriptional control element, e.g., a
        promoter, and enhancer, etc.
[00196]          Suitable promoter and enhancer elements are known in the art. For expression in a
        bacterial cell, suitable promoters include, but are not limited to, lac, lacZ, T3, T7, gpt,
        lambda P and trc. For expression in a eukaryotic cell, suitable promoters include, but are not
        limited to, light and/or heavy chain immunoglobulin gene promoter and enhancer elements;
        cytomegalovirus immediate early promoter; herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase
        promoter; early and late SV40 promoters; promoter present in long terminal repeats from a
        retrovirus; mouse metallothionein-I promoter; and various art-known tissue specific
        promoters.
[001971          Suitable reversible promoters, including reversible inducible promoters are known in
        the art. Such reversible promoters may be isolated and derived from many organisms, e.g.,
        eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Modification of reversible promoters derived from a first
        organism for use in a second organism, e.g., a first prokaryote and a second a eukaryote, a
        first eukaryote and a second a prokaryote, etc., is well known in the art. Such reversible
        promoters, and systems based on such reversible promoters but also comprising additional
        control proteins, include, but are not limited to, alcohol regulated promoters (e.g., alcohol
                                                    44

        dehydrogenase I (alcA) gene promoter, promoters responsive to alcohol transactivator
        proteins (AlcR), etc.), tetracycline regulated promoters, (e.g., promoter systems including
        TetActivators, TetON, TetOFF, etc.), steroid regulated promoters (e.g., rat glucocorticoid
        receptor promoter systems, human estrogen receptor promoter systems, retinoid promoter
        systems, thyroid promoter systems, ecdysone promoter systems, mifepristone promoter
        systems, etc.), metal regulated promoters (e.g., metallothionein promoter systems, etc.),
        pathogenesis-related regulated promoters (e.g., salicylic acid regulated promoters, ethylene
        regulated promoters, benzothiadiazole regulated promoters, etc.), temperature regulated
        promoters (e.g., heat shock inducible promoters (e.g., HSP-70, HSP-90, soybean heat shock
        promoter, etc.), light regulated promoters, synthetic inducible promoters, and the like.
[00198]         In some instances, the locus or construct or transgene containing the suitable
        promoter is irreversibly switched through the induction of an inducible system. Suitable
        systems for induction of an irreversible switch are well known in the art, e.g., induction of
        an irreversible switch may make use of a Cre-lox-mediated recombination (see, e.g.,
        Fuhrmann-Benzakein, et al., PNAS (2000) 28:e99, the disclosure of which is incorporated
        herein by reference). Any suitable combination of recombinase, endonuclease, ligase,
        recombination sites, etc. known to the art may be used in generating an irreversibly
        switchable promoter. Methods, mechanisms, and requirements for performing site-specific
        recombination, described elsewhere herein, find use in generating irreversibly switched
        promoters and are well known in the art, see, e.g., Grindley et al. (2006) Annual Review of
        Biochemistry, 567-605 and Tropp (2012) Molecular Biology (Jones & Bartlett Publishers,
        Sudbury, MA), the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
[00199]         In some cases, the promoter is a CD8 cell-specific promoter, a CD4 cell-specific
        promoter, a neutrophil-specific promoter, or an NK-specific promoter. For example, a CD4
        gene promoter can be used; see, e.g., Salmon et al. (1993) Proc.Natl. A cad. Sci. USA
        90:7739; and Marodon et al. (2003) Blood 101:3416. As another example, a CD8 gene
        promoter can be used. NK cell-specific expression can be achieved by use of an Ncr] (p 4 6 )
        promoter; see, e.g., Eckelhart et al. (2011) Blood 117:1565.
[00200]         In some embodiments, e.g., for expression in a yeast cell, a suitable promoter is a
        constitutive promoter such as an ADHI promoter, a PGK1 promoter, an ENO promoter, a
        PYKI promoter and the like; or a regulatable promoter such as a GAL1 promoter, a GAL 10
        promoter, an ADH2 promoter, a PHO5 promoter, a CUP 1 promoter, a GAL7 promoter, a
        MET25 promoter, a MET3 promoter, a CYCI promoter, a HIS3 promoter, an ADHI
        promoter, a PGK promoter, a GAPDH promoter, an ADC 1 promoter, a TRP 1 promoter, a
                                                    45

        URA3 promoter, a LEU2 promoter, an ENO promoter, a TP1 promoter, and AOX1 (e.g.,
        for use in Pichia). Selection of the appropriate vector and promoter is well within the level
        of ordinary skill in the art.
[00201]          Suitable promoters for use in prokaryotic host cells include, but are not limited to, a
        bacteriophage T7 RNA polymerase promoter; a trp promoter; a lac operon promoter; a
        hybrid promoter, e.g., a lac/tac hybrid promoter, a tac/trc hybrid promoter, a trp/lac
        promoter, a T7/lac promoter; a trc promoter; a tac promoter, and the like; an araBAD
        promoter; in vivo regulated promoters, such as an ssaG promoter or a related promoter (see,
        e.g., U.S. Patent Publication No. 20040131637), apagCpromoter (Pulkkinen and Miller, J
        Bacteriol., 1991: 173(1): 86-93; Alpuche-Aranda et al., PNAS, 1992; 89(21): 10079-83), a
        nirB promoter (Harborne et al. (1992) Mol. Micro. 6:2805-2813), and the like (see, e.g.,
        Dunstan et al. (1999) Infect. Immun. 67:5133-5141; McKelvie et al. (2004) Vaccine
        22:3243-3255; and Chatfield et al. (1992) Biotechnol. 10:888-892); a sigma70 promoter,
        e.g., a consensus sigma70 promoter (see, e.g., GenBank Accession Nos. AX798980,
        AX798961, and AX798183); a stationary phase promoter, e.g., a dps promoter, an spv
        promoter, and the like; a promoter derived from the pathogenicity island SPI-2 (see, e.g.,
        W096/1795 1); an actA promoter (see, e.g., Shetron-Rama et al. (2002) Infect. Immun.
        70:1087-1096); an rpsM promoter (see, e.g., Valdivia and Falkow (1996). Mol. Microbiol.
        22:367); a tet promoter (see, e.g., Hillen,W. and Wissmann,A. (1989) In Saenger,W. and
        Heinemann,U. (eds), Topics in Molecular and StructuralBiology, Protein-NucleicAcid
        Interaction. Macmillan, London, UK, Vol. 10, pp. 143-162); an SP6 promoter (see, e.g.,
        Melton et al. (1984) Nucl. Acids Res. 12:7035); and the like. Suitable strong promoters for
        use in prokaryotes such as Escherichiacoli include, but are not limited to Trc, Tac, T5, T7,
        and PLambda. Non-limiting examples of operators for use in bacterial host cells include a
        lactose promoter operator (Lac repressor protein changes conformation when contacted
        with lactose, thereby preventing the Lac repressor protein from binding to the operator), a
        tryptophan promoter operator (when complexed with tryptophan, TrpR repressor protein has
        a conformation that binds the operator; in the absence of tryptophan, the TrpR repressor
        protein has a conformation that does not bind to the operator), and a tac promoter operator
        (see, for example, deBoer et al. (1983) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 80:21-25).
[00202]          A nucleotide sequence encoding a subject CAR can be present in an expression
        vector and/or a cloning vector. Where a subject CAR comprises two separate polypeptides,
        nucleotide sequences encoding the two polypeptides can be cloned in the same or separate
        vectors. An expression vector can include a selectable marker, an origin of replication, and
                                                   46

        other features that provide for replication and/or maintenance of the vector. Suitable
        expression vectors include, e.g., plasmids, viral vectors, and the like.
[00203]          Large numbers of suitable vectors and promoters are known to those of skill in the
        art; many are commercially available for generating a subject recombinant constructs. The
        following vectors are provided by way of example. Bacterial: pBs, phagescript, PsiX174,
       pBluescript SK, pBs KS, pNH8a, pNH16a, pNH18a, pNH46a (Stratagene, La Jolla, Calif.,
       USA); pTrc99A, pKK223-3, pKK233-3, pDR540, and pRIT5 (Pharmacia, Uppsala,
        Sweden). Eukaryotic: pWLneo, pSV2cat, pOG44, PXR1, pSG (Stratagene) pSVK3, pBPV,
       pMSG and pSVL (Pharmacia).
[00204]          Expression vectors generally have convenient restriction sites located near the
       promoter sequence to provide for the insertion of nucleic acid sequences encoding
        heterologous proteins. A selectable marker operative in the expression host may be present.
        Suitable expression vectors include, but are not limited to, viral vectors (e.g. viral vectors
       based on vaccinia virus; poliovirus; adenovirus (see, e.g., Li et al., Invest Opthalmol Vis Sci
        35:2543 2549, 1994; Borras et al., Gene Ther 6:515 524, 1999; Li and Davidson, PNAS
        92:7700 7704, 1995; Sakamoto et al., H Gene Ther 5:1088 1097, 1999; WO 94/12649, WO
        93/03769; WO 93/19191; WO 94/28938; WO 95/11984 and WO 95/00655); adeno
        associated virus (see, e.g., Ali et al., Hum Gene Ther 9:81 86, 1998, Flannery et al., PNAS
        94:6916 6921, 1997; Bennett et al., Invest Opthalmol Vis Sci 38:2857 2863, 1997; Jomary
        et al., Gene Ther 4:683 690, 1997, Rolling et al., Hum Gene Ther 10:641 648, 1999; Ali et
        al., Hum Mol Genet 5:591 594, 1996; Srivastava in WO 93/09239, Samulski et al., J. Vir.
        (1989) 63:3822-3828; Mendelson et al., Virol. (1988) 166:154-165; and Flotte et al., PNAS
        (1993) 90:10613-10617); SV40; herpes simplex virus; human immunodeficiency virus (see,
        e.g., Miyoshi et al., PNAS 94:10319 23, 1997; Takahashi et al., J Virol 73:7812 7816,
        1999); a retroviral vector (e.g., Murine Leukemia Virus, spleen necrosis virus, and vectors
        derived from retroviruses such as Rous Sarcoma Virus, Harvey Sarcoma Virus, avian
        leukosis virus, human immunodeficiency virus, myeloproliferative sarcoma virus, and
        mammary tumor virus); and the like.
[00205]          As noted above, in some embodiments, a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide
        sequence encoding the first and/or the second polypeptide of a heterodimeric, conditionally
        active CAR of the present disclosure will in some embodiments be RNA, e.g., in vitro
        synthesized RNA. Methods for in vitro synthesis of RNA are known in the art; any known
        method can be used to synthesize RNA comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the first
        and/or the second polypeptide of a heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of the present
                                                    47

        disclosure. Methods for introducing RNA into a host cell are known in the art. See, e.g.,
        Zhao et al. (2010) Cancer Res. 15:9053. Introducing RNA comprising a nucleotide
        sequence encoding the first and/or the second polypeptide of a heterodimeric, conditionally
        active CAR of the present disclosure into a host cell can be carried out in vitro or ex vivo or
        in vivo. For example, a host cell (e.g., an NK cell, a cytotoxic T lymphocyte, etc.) can be
        electroporated in vitro or ex vivo with RNA comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the
        first and/or the second polypeptide of a heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of the
       present disclosure.
        CELLS
[00206]          The present disclosure provides a mammalian cell that is genetically modified to
       produce a heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of the present disclosure.
[002071          Suitable mammalian cells include primary cells and immortalized cell lines.
        Suitable mammalian cell lines include human cell lines, non-human primate cell lines,
        rodent (e.g., mouse, rat) cell lines, and the like. Suitable mammalian cell lines include, but
        are not limited to, HeLa cells (e.g., American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) No. CCL-2),
        CHO cells (e.g., ATCC Nos. CRL9618, CCL61, CRL9096), 293 cells (e.g., ATCC No.
        CRL-1573), Vero cells, NIH 3T3 cells (e.g., ATCC No. CRL-1658), Huh-7 cells, BHK
        cells (e.g., ATCC No. CCL1O), PC12 cells (ATCC No. CRL1721), COS cells, COS-7 cells
        (ATCC No. CRL165 1), RATI cells, mouse L cells (ATCC No. CCLI.3), human embryonic
       kidney (HEK) cells (ATCC No. CRL1573), HLHepG2 cells, Hut-78, Jurkat, HL-60, NK
        cell lines (e.g., NKL, NK92, and YTS), and the like.
[00208]          In some instances, the cell is not an immortalized cell line, but is instead a cell (e.g.,
        a primary cell) obtained from an individual. For example, in some cases, the cell is an
        immune cell obtained from an individual. As an example, the cell is a T lymphocyte
        obtained from an individual. As another example, the cell is a cytotoxic cell obtained from
        an individual. As another example, the cell is a stem cell or progenitor cell obtained from an
        individual.
        METHODS OF ACTIVATING AN IMMUNE CELL
[00209]          The present disclosure provides methods of activating an immune cell in vitro, in
        vivo, or ex vivo. The methods generally involve contacting an immune cell (in vitro, in vivo,
        or ex vivo) with a dimerizing agent and an antigen, where the immune cell is genetically
        modified to produce a heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of the present disclosure. In
        the presence of the dimerizing agent and the antigen, the heterodimeric, conditionally active
        CAR dimerizes and activates the immune cell, thereby producing an activated immune cell.
                                                     48

        Immune cells include, e.g., a cytotoxic T lymphocyte, an NK cell, a CD4+ T cell, a T
        regulatory (Treg) cell, etc.
[00210]          Contacting the genetically modified immune cell (e.g., a T lymphocyte, an NK cell)
        with a dimerizing agent and a second member of a specific binding pair (e.g., an antigen, a
        ligand, a receptor) can increase production of a cytokine by the immune cell by at least
        about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at
        least about 40%, at least about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 2-fold, at least about
        2.5-fold, at least about 5-fold, at least about 10-fold, or more than 10-fold, compared with
        the amount of cytokine produced by the immune cell in the absence of the second member
        of a specific binding pair and/or the dimerizing agent. Cytokines whose production can be
        increased include, but are not limited to, IL-2 and IFN-7.
[00211]          Contacting the genetically modified immune cell (e.g., a T lymphocyte, an NK cell)
        with a dimerizing agent and an antigen can increase production of a cytokine by the immune
        cell by at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at
        least about 30%, at least about 40%, at least about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 2
        fold, at least about 2.5-fold, at least about 5-fold, at least about 10-fold, or more than 10
        fold, compared with the amount of cytokine produced by the immune cell in the absence of
        the antigen and/or the dimerizing agent. Cytokines whose production can be increased
        include, but are not limited to, IL-2 and IFN-7.
[00212]          Contacting a genetically modified cytotoxic cell (e.g., cytotoxic T lymphocyte) with
        a dimerizing agent and a second member of a specific binding pair (e.g., an antigen, a
        ligand, a receptor) can increase cytotoxic activity of the cytotoxic cell by at least about 10%,
        at least about 15%, at least about 2 0%, at least about 2 5%, at least about 3 0%, at least about
        40%, at least about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 2-fold, at least about 2.5-fold, at
        least about 5-fold, at least about 10-fold, or more than 10-fold, compared to the cytotoxic
        activity of the cytotoxic cell in the absence of the dimerizing agent.
[00213]          Contacting a genetically modified cytotoxic cell (e.g., cytotoxic T lymphocyte) with
        a dimerizing agent and an antigen can increase cytotoxic activity of the cytotoxic cell by at
        least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 2 0%, at least about 2 5%, at least about
        30%, at least about 40%, at least about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 2-fold, at
        least about 2.5-fold, at least about 5-fold, at least about 10-fold, or more than 10-fold,
        compared to the cytotoxic activity of the cytotoxic cell in the absence of the dimerizing
        agent.
                                                     49

[002141         In other embodiments, e.g., depending on the host immune cell, contacting a
        genetically modified host cell with a dimerizing agent and an antigen can increase or
        decrease cell proliferation, cell survival, cell death, and the like.
        METHODS OF GENERATING A CONDITIONALLY ACTIVATABLE CELL
[00215]         The present disclosure provides a method of generating a conditionally activatable
        cell. The method generally involves genetically modifying a mammalian cell with an
        expression vector, or an RNA (e.g., in vitro transcribed RNA), comprising nucleotide
        sequences encoding a heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of the present disclosure.
        The genetically modified cell is conditionally activatable in the presence of: a) an antigen to
        which the first polypeptide of the CAR binds; and b) a dimerizer (a dimerizing agent). The
        genetic modification can be carried out in vivo, in vitro, or ex vivo. The cell can be an
        immune cell (e.g., a T lymphocyte or NK cell), a stem cell, a progenitor cell, etc.
[00216]         In some cases, the genetic modification is carried out ex vivo. For example, a T
        lymphocyte, a stem cell, or an NK cell is obtained from an individual; and the cell obtained
        from the individual is genetically modified to express a CAR of the present disclosure. The
        genetically modified cell is conditionally activatable in the presence of: a) an antigen to
        which the first polypeptide of the CAR binds; and b) a dimerizer. In some cases, the
        genetically modified cell is activated ex vivo. In other cases, the genetically modified cell is
        introduced into an individual (e.g., the individual from whom the cell was obtained); and the
        genetically modified cell is activated in vivo, e.g., by administering to the individual a
        dimerizer. For example, where the antigen is present on the surface of a cell in the
        individual, there is no need to administer the antigen. The genetically modified cell comes
        into contact with the antigen present on the surface of a cell in the individual; and, upon
        administration to the individual of a dimerizer, the genetically modified cell is activated. For
        example, where the genetically modified cell is a T lymphocyte, the genetically modified
        cell can exhibit cytotoxicity toward a cell that presents an antigen on its surface to which the
        CAR binds.
        TREATMENT METHODS
[002171         The present disclosure provides various treatment methods using a subject CAR.
        Cytotoxicity methods
[00218]         A CAR of the present disclosure, when present in a T lymphocyte or an NK cell, can
        mediate cytotoxicity toward a target cell. A CAR of the present disclosure binds to an
        antigen present on a target cell, thereby mediating killing of a target cell by a T lymphocyte
                                                     50

        or an NK cell genetically modified to produce the CAR. The antigen-binding domain of the
        CAR binds to an antigen present on the surface of a target cell.
[00219]          Target cells include, but are not limited to, cancer cells. Thus, the present disclosure
       provides methods of killing, or inhibiting the growth of, a target cancer cell, the method
        involving contacting a cytotoxic immune effector cell (e.g., a cytotoxic T cell, or an NK
        cell) that is genetically modified to produce a subject CAR, such that the T lymphocyte or
       NK cell recognizes an antigen present on the surface of a target cancer cell, and mediates
       killing of the target cell.
[00220]          The present disclosure provides a method of treating cancer in an individual having
        a cancer, the method comprising: i) genetically modifying T lymphocytes obtained from the
        individual with an expression vector comprising nucleotide sequences encoding the
        heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of the present disclosure, where the antigen
       binding domain of the heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR is specific for an epitope on
        a cancer cell in the individual, and where the genetic modification is carried out ex vivo; ii)
        introducing the genetically modified T lymphocytes into the individual; and iii)
        administering to the individual an effective amount of a dimerizing agent, wherein the
        dimerizing agent induces dimerization of the heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR,
        wherein said dimerization provides for activation of the genetically modified T lymphocytes
        and killing of the cancer cell, thereby treating the cancer.
[00221]          Carcinomas that can be amenable to therapy by a method disclosed herein include,
       but are not limited to, esophageal carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma
        (a form of skin cancer), squamous cell carcinoma (various tissues), bladder carcinoma,
        including transitional cell carcinoma (a malignant neoplasm of the bladder), bronchogenic
        carcinoma, colon carcinoma, colorectal carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, lung carcinoma,
        including small cell carcinoma and non-small cell carcinoma of the lung, adrenocortical
        carcinoma, thyroid carcinoma, pancreatic carcinoma, breast carcinoma, ovarian carcinoma,
       prostate carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma,
       papillary carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinoma, cystadenocarcinoma, medullary carcinoma,
        renal cell carcinoma, ductal carcinoma in situ or bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma,
        seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilm's tumor, cervical carcinoma, uterine carcinoma,
        testicular carcinoma, osteogenic carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma, and nasopharyngeal
        carcinoma.
[00222]          Sarcomas that can be amenable to therapy by a method disclosed herein include, but
        are not limited to, fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, chondrosarcoma, chordoma,
                                                     51

        osteogenic sarcoma, osteosarcoma, angiosarcoma, endotheliosarcoma, lymphangiosarcoma,
        lymphangioendotheliosarcoma, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's sarcoma,
        leiomyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and other soft tissue sarcomas.
[00223]          Other solid tumors that can be amenable to therapy by a method disclosed herein
        include, but are not limited to, glioma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma,
        ependymoma, pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma,
        menangioma, melanoma, neuroblastoma, and retinoblastoma.
[00224]          Leukemias that can be amenable to therapy by a method disclosed herein include,
       but are not limited to, a) chronic myeloproliferative syndromes (neoplastic disorders of
        multipotential hematopoietic stem cells); b) acute myelogenous leukemias (neoplastic
        transformation of a multipotential hematopoietic stem cell or a hematopoietic cell of
        restricted lineage potential; c) chronic lymphocytic leukemias (CLL; clonal proliferation of
        immunologically immature and functionally incompetent small lymphocytes), including B
        cell CLL, T-cell CLL prolymphocytic leukemia, and hairy cell leukemia; and d) acute
        lymphoblastic leukemias (characterized by accumulation of lymphoblasts). Lymphomas that
        can be treated using a subject method include, but are not limited to, B-cell lymphomas
        (e.g., Burkitt's lymphoma); Hodgkin's lymphoma; non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and the like.
[00225]          Other cancers that can be amenable to treatment according to the methods disclosed
        herein include atypical meningioma (brain), islet cell carcinoma (pancreas), medullary
        carcinoma (thyroid), mesenchymoma (intestine), hepatocellular carcinoma (liver),
        hepatoblastoma (liver), clear cell carcinoma (kidney), and neurofibroma mediastinum.
        Immunomodulatory methods
[00226]          A subject method can also be used to treat inflammatory conditions and autoimmune
        disease. A subject CAR is expressed in a T-helper cell or a Tregs for use in an
        immunomodulatory method. Immunomodulatory methods include, e.g., enhancing an
        immune response in a mammalian subject toward a pathogen; enhancing an immune
        response in a subject who is immunocompromised; reducing an inflammatory response;
        reducing an immune response in a mammalian subject to an autoantigen, e.g., to treat an
        autoimmune disease; and reducing an immune response in a mammalian subject to a
        transplanted organ or tissue, to reduce organ or tissue rejection.
[002271          Where the method involves reducing an immune response to an autoantigen, the
        antigen used to activate the CAR is an autoantigen. Where the method involves reducing an
        immune response to a transplanted organ or tissue, the antigen used to activate the CAR is
        an antigen specific to the transplanted organ.
                                                   52

        Formulations, dosages, and routes of administration
[00228]         As discussed above, a treatment method of the present disclosure involves
        administration to an individual in need thereof of an effective amount of a dimerizer agent,
        and may also involve administration of an antigen.
[00229]         An "effective amount" of a dimerizer agent is in some cases an amount that, when
        administered in one or more doses to an individual in need thereof, increases the level of
        cytotoxic activity of a T lymphocyte expressing a subject CAR by at least about 10%, at
        least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least about
        40%, at least about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 2-fold, at least about 2.5-fold, at
        least about 5-fold, at least about 10-fold, or more than 10-fold, compared to the cytotoxic
        activity of the T lymphocyte in the absence of the dimerizing agent.
[00230]         An "effective amount" of a dimerizer agent is in some cases an amount that, when
        administered in one or more doses to an individual in need thereof, increases the level of
        cytotoxic activity of an NK cell expressing a subject CAR by at least about 10%, at least
        about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least about 40%, at
        least about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 2-fold, at least about 2.5-fold, at least
        about 5-fold, at least about 10-fold, or more than 10-fold, compared to the cytotoxic activity
        of the NK cell in the absence of the dimerizing agent.
[00231]         An "effective amount" of a dimerizer agent is in some cases an amount that, when
        administered in one or more doses to an individual in need thereof, reduces the number of
        cancer cells in the individual and/or reduces tumor mass in the individual, by at least about
        10%, at least about 15%, at least about 2 0%, at least about 2 5%, at least about 3 0%, at least
        about 40%, at least about 50%, at least about 75%, or more than 75%, compared to the
        number of cancer cells and/or tumor mass in the absence of the dimerizing agent.
[00232]         In some embodiments, an effective amount of a dimerizer is an amount that, when
        administered alone (e.g., in monotherapy) or in combination (e.g., in combination therapy)
        with one or more additional therapeutic agents, in one or more doses, is effective to reduce
        one or more of tumor growth rate, cancer cell number, and tumor mass, by at least about
        5%, at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 2 0%, at least about 2 5%, at least
        about 3 0%, at least about 4 0%, at least about 50%, at least about 6 0%, at least about 7 0%, at
        least about 80%, at least about 90%, or more, compared to the tumor growth rate, cancer
        cell number, or tumor mass in the absence of treatment with the dimerizer.
                                                    53

        Formulations
[002331          In the subject methods, a dimerizer can be administered to the host using any
        convenient means capable of resulting in the desired therapeutic effect or diagnostic effect.
        Thus, the dimerizer can be incorporated into a variety of formulations for therapeutic
        administration. More particularly, a dimerizer can be formulated into pharmaceutical
        compositions by combination with appropriate, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or
        diluents, and may be formulated into preparations in solid, semi-solid, liquid or gaseous
        forms, such as tablets, capsules, powders, granules, ointments, solutions, suppositories,
        injections, inhalants and aerosols.
[00234]         In pharmaceutical dosage forms, a dimerizer can be administered in the form of their
        pharmaceutically acceptable salts, or they may also be used alone or in appropriate
        association, as well as in combination, with other pharmaceutically active compounds. The
        following methods and excipients are merely exemplary and are in no way limiting.
[00235]          Suitable excipient vehicles are, for example, water, saline, dextrose, glycerol,
        ethanol, or the like, and combinations thereof. In addition, if desired, the vehicle may
        contain minor amounts of auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents or pH
        buffering agents. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known, or will be
        apparent, to those skilled in the art. See, eg, Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack
        Publishing Company, Easton, Pennsylvania, 17th edition, 1985. The composition or
        formulation to be administered will, in any event, contain a quantity of a dimerizer adequate
        to achieve the desired state in the subject being treated.
[00236]          The pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, such as vehicles, adjuvants, carriers or
        diluents, are readily available to the public. Moreover, pharmaceutically acceptable
        auxiliary substances, such as pH adjusting and buffering agents, tonicity adjusting agents,
        stabilizers, wetting agents and the like, are readily available to the public.
[002371         For oral preparations, a dimerizer can be used alone or in combination with
        appropriate additives to make tablets, powders, granules or capsules, for example, with
        conventional additives, such as lactose, mannitol, corn starch or potato starch; with binders,
        such as crystalline cellulose, cellulose derivatives, acacia, corn starch or gelatins; with
        disintegrators, such as corn starch, potato starch or sodium carboxymethylcellulose; with
        lubricants, such as talc or magnesium stearate; and if desired, with diluents, buffering
        agents, moistening agents, preservatives and flavoring agents.
[00238]         A dimerizer can be formulated into preparations for injection by dissolving,
        suspending or emulsifying them in an aqueous or nonaqueous solvent, such as vegetable or
                                                    54

        other similar oils, synthetic aliphatic acid glycerides, esters of higher aliphatic acids or
       propylene glycol; and if desired, with conventional additives such as solubilizers, isotonic
        agents, suspending agents, emulsifying agents, stabilizers and preservatives.
[00239]          Pharmaceutical compositions comprising a dimerizer are prepared by mixing the
        dimerizer having the desired degree of purity with optional physiologically acceptable
        carriers, excipients, stabilizers, surfactants, buffers and/or tonicity agents. Acceptable
        carriers, excipients and/or stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and
        concentrations employed, and include buffers such as phosphate, citrate, and other organic
        acids; antioxidants including ascorbic acid, glutathione, cysteine, methionine and citric acid;
       preservatives (such as ethanol, benzyl alcohol, phenol, m-cresol, p-chlor-m-cresol, methyl
        or propyl parabens, benzalkonium chloride, or combinations thereof); amino acids such as
        arginine, glycine, ornithine, lysine, histidine, glutamic acid, aspartic acid, isoleucine,
        leucine, alanine, phenylalanine, tyrosine, tryptophan, methionine, serine, proline and
        combinations thereof; monosaccharides, disaccharides and other carbohydrates; low
        molecular weight (less than about 10 residues) polypeptides; proteins, such as gelatin or
        serum albumin; chelating agents such as EDTA; sugars such as trehalose, sucrose, lactose,
        glucose, mannose, maltose, galactose, fructose, sorbose, raffinose, glucosamine, N
        methylglucosamine, galactosamine, and neuraminic acid; and/or non-ionic surfactants such
        as Tween, Brij Pluronics, Triton-X, or polyethylene glycol (PEG).
[00240]          The pharmaceutical composition may be in a liquid form, a lyophilized form or a
        liquid form reconstituted from a lyophilized form, wherein the lyophilized preparation is to
       be reconstituted with a sterile solution prior to administration. The standard procedure for
        reconstituting a lyophilized composition is to add back a volume of pure water (typically
        equivalent to the volume removed during lyophilization); however solutions comprising
        antibacterial agents may be used for the production of pharmaceutical compositions for
       parenteral administration; see also Chen (1992) Drug Dev Ind Pharm 18, 1311-54.
[00241]          The term "unit dosage form," as used herein, refers to physically discrete units
        suitable as unitary dosages for human and animal subjects, each unit containing a
       predetermined quantity a dimerizer calculated in an amount sufficient to produce the desired
        effect in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent, carrier or vehicle. The
        specifications for a given dimerizer may depend on the particular dimerizer employed and
        the effect to be achieved, and the pharmacodynamics associated with each dimerizer in the
        host.
                                                     55

[002421          In some embodiments, a dimerizer is formulated in a controlled release formulation.
        Sustained-release preparations may be prepared using methods well known in the art.
        Suitable examples of sustained-release preparations include semipermeable matrices of
        solid hydrophobic polymers containing the dimerizer in which the matrices are in the form
        of shaped articles, e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained-release matrices
        include polyesters, copolymers of L-glutamic acid and ethyl-L-glutamate, non-degradable
        ethylene-vinyl acetate, hydrogels, polylactides, degradable lactic acid-glycolic acid
        copolymers and poly-D-(-)-3-hydroxybutyric acid. Possible loss of biological activity may
        be prevented by using appropriate additives, by controlling moisture content and by
        developing specific polymer matrix compositions.
        Dosages
[00243]         A suitable dosage can be determined by an attending physician or other qualified
        medical personnel, based on various clinical factors. As is well known in the medical arts,
        dosages for any one patient depend upon many factors, including the patient's size, body
        surface area, age, the particular dimerizer to be administered, sex of the patient, time, and
        route of administration, general health, and other drugs being administered concurrently. A
        dimerizer may be administered in amounts between 1 ng/kg body weight and 20 mg/kg
        body weight per dose, e.g. between 0.1 mg/kg body weight to 10 mg/kg body weight, e.g.
        between 0.5 mg/kg body weight to 5 mg/kg body weight; however, doses below or above
        this exemplary range are envisioned, especially considering the aforementioned factors. If
        the regimen is a continuous infusion, it can also be in the range of 1 pLg to 10 mg per
        kilogram of body weight per minute.
[00244]          Those of skill will readily appreciate that dose levels can vary as a function of the
        specific dimerizer, the severity of the symptoms and the susceptibility of the subject to side
        effects. Preferred dosages for a given compound are readily determinable by those of skill in
        the art by a variety of means.
        Routes of administration
[00245]         A dimerizer is administered to an individual using any available method and route
        suitable for drug delivery, including in vivo and ex vivo methods, as well as systemic and
        localized routes of administration.
[00246]          Conventional and pharmaceutically acceptable routes of administration include
        intratumoral, peritumoral, intramuscular, intratracheal, intracranial, subcutaneous,
        intradermal, topical application, intravenous, intraarterial, rectal, nasal, oral, and other
        enteral and parenteral routes of administration. Routes of administration may be combined,
                                                    56

        if desired, or adjusted depending upon the dimerizer and/or the desired effect. A dimerizer
        can be administered in a single dose or in multiple doses. In some embodiments, a dimerizer
        is administered orally. In some embodiments, a dimerizer is administered via an inhalational
        route. In some embodiments, a dimerizer is administered intranasally. In some
        embodiments, a dimerizer is administered locally. In some embodiments, a dimerizer is
        administered intratumorally. In some embodiments, a dimerizer is administered
        peritumorally. In some embodiments, a dimerizer is administered intracranially. In some
        embodiments, a dimerizer is administered intravenously.
[002471          The agent can be administered to a host using any available conventional methods
        and routes suitable for delivery of conventional drugs, including systemic or localized
        routes. In general, routes of administration contemplated by the invention include, but are
        not necessarily limited to, enteral, parenteral, or inhalational routes.
[00248]          Parenteral routes of administration other than inhalation administration include, but
        are not necessarily limited to, topical, transdermal, subcutaneous, intramuscular,
        intraorbital, intracapsular, intraspinal, intrasternal, intratumoral, peritumoral, and
        intravenous routes, i.e., any route of administration other than through the alimentary canal.
        Parenteral administration can be carried to effect systemic or local delivery of a dimerizer.
        Where systemic delivery is desired, administration typically involves invasive or
        systemically absorbed topical or mucosal administration of pharmaceutical preparations.
[00249]          A dimerizer can also be delivered to the subject by enteral administration. Enteral
        routes of administration include, but are not necessarily limited to, oral and rectal (e.g.,
        using a suppository) delivery.
[00250]          By treatment is meant at least an amelioration of the symptoms associated with the
        pathological condition afflicting the host, where amelioration is used in a broad sense to
        refer to at least a reduction in the magnitude of a parameter, e.g. symptom, associated with
        the pathological condition being treated, such as cancer. As such, treatment also includes
        situations where the pathological condition, or at least symptoms associated therewith, are
        completely inhibited, e.g. prevented from happening, or stopped, e.g. terminated, such that
        the host no longer suffers from the pathological condition, or at least the symptoms that
        characterize the pathological condition.
[00251]          In some embodiments, a dimerizer is administered by injection and/or delivery, e.g.,
        to a site in a brain artery or directly into brain tissue. A dimerizer can also be administered
        directly to a target site e.g., by direct injection, by implantation of a drug delivery device
        such as an osmotic pump or slow release particle, by biolistic delivery to the target site, etc.
                                                      57

        Combination therapy
[00252]          In some embodiments, a dimerizer is administered as an adjuvant therapy to a
        standard cancer therapy. Standard cancer therapies include surgery (e.g., surgical removal of
        cancerous tissue), radiation therapy, bone marrow transplantation, chemotherapeutic
        treatment, antibody treatment, biological response modifier treatment, and certain
        combinations of the foregoing.
[00253]          Radiation therapy includes, but is not limited to, x-rays or gamma rays that are
        delivered from either an externally applied source such as a beam, or by implantation of
        small radioactive sources.
[00254]          Suitable antibodies for use in cancer treatment include, but are not limited to, naked
        antibodies, e.g., trastuzumab (Herceptin) , bevacizumab (AvastinTM), cetuximab
        (ErbituxTM), panitumumab (VectibixTM), Ipilimumab (YervoyTM), rituximab (Rituxan),
        alemtuzumab (LemtradaTM), Ofatumumab (ArzerraTM), Oregovomab (OvaRexTM),
        Lambrolizumab (MK-3475), pertuzumab (PerjetaTM), ranibizumab (LucentisTM) etc., and
        conjugated antibodies, e.g., gemtuzumab ozogamicin (MylortargTM), Brentuximab vedotin
        (AdcetrisTM),   90 Y-labelled ibritumomab tiuxetan (ZevalinTM),       _'I-labelled tositumoma
        (BexxarM), etc. Suitable antibodies for use in cancer treatment include, but are not limited
        to, antibodies raised against tumor-associated antigens. Such antigens include, but are not
        limited to, CD20, CD30, CD33, CD52, EpCAM, CEA, gpA33, Mucins, TAG-72, CAIX,
        PSMA, Folate-binding protein, Gangliosides (e.g., GD2, GD3, GM2, etc.), Le Y , VEGF,
        VEGFR, Integrin alpha-V-beta-3, Integrin alpha-5-beta-1, EGFR, ERBB2, ERBB3, MET,
        IGF1R, EPHA3, TRAILR1, TRAILR2, RANKL, FAP, Tenascin, etc.
[00255]         Biological response modifiers suitable for use in connection with the methods of the
        present disclosure include, but are not limited to, (1) inhibitors of tyrosine kinase (RTK)
        activity; (2) inhibitors of serine/threonine kinase activity; (3) tumor-associated antigen
        antagonists, such as antibodies that bind specifically to a tumor antigen; ( 4) apoptosis
        receptor agonists; (5) interleukin-2; (6) interferon-a.; (7) interferon -y; (8) colony
        stimulating factors; (9) inhibitors of angiogenesis; and (10) antagonists of tumor necrosis
        factor.
[00256]          Chemotherapeutic agents are non-peptidic (i.e., non-proteinaceous) compounds that
        reduce proliferation of cancer cells, and encompass cytotoxic agents and cytostatic agents.
        Non-limiting examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents, nitrosoureas,
        antimetabolites, antitumor antibiotics, plant (vinca) alkaloids, and steroid hormones.
                                                    58

[002571         Agents that act to reduce cellular proliferation are known in the art and widely used.
        Such agents include alkylating agents, such as nitrogen mustards, nitrosoureas, ethylenimine
        derivatives, alkyl sulfonates, and triazenes, including, but not limited to, mechlorethamine,
        cyclophosphamide (CytoxanTM), melphalan (L-sarcolysin), carmustine (BCNU), lomustine
        (CCNU), semustine (methyl-CCNU), streptozocin, chlorozotocin, uracil mustard,
        chlormethine, ifosfamide, chlorambucil, pipobroman, triethylenemelamine,
        triethylenethiophosphoramine, busulfan, dacarbazine, and temozolomide.
[002581         Antimetabolite agents include folic acid analogs, pyrimidine analogs, purine
        analogs, and adenosine deaminase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, cytarabine
        (CYTOSAR-U), cytosine arabinoside, fluorouracil (5-FU), floxuridine (FudR), 6
        thioguanine, 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP), pentostatin, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), methotrexate,
         10-propargyl-5,8-dideazafolate (PDDF, CB3717), 5,8-dideazatetrahydrofolic acid
        (DDATHF), leucovorin, fludarabine phosphate, pentostatine, and gemcitabine.
[00259]          Suitable natural products and their derivatives, (e.g., vinca alkaloids, antitumor
        antibiotics, enzymes, lymphokines, and epipodophyllotoxins), include, but are not limited
        to, Ara-C, paclitaxel (Taxol@), docetaxel (Taxotere@), deoxycoformycin, mitomycin-C, L
        asparaginase, azathioprine; brequinar; alkaloids, e.g. vincristine, vinblastine, vinorelbine,
        vindesine, etc.; podophyllotoxins, e.g. etoposide, teniposide, etc.; antibiotics, e.g.
        anthracycline, daunorubicin hydrochloride (daunomycin, rubidomycin, cerubidine),
        idarubicin, doxorubicin, epirubicin and morpholino derivatives, etc.; phenoxizone
        biscyclopeptides, e.g. dactinomycin; basic glycopeptides, e.g. bleomycin; anthraquinone
        glycosides, e.g. plicamycin (mithramycin); anthracenediones, e.g. mitoxantrone;
        azirinopyrrolo indolediones, e.g. mitomycin; macrocyclic immunosuppressants, e.g.
        cyclosporine, FK-506 (tacrolimus, prograf), rapamycin, etc.; and the like.
[00260]          Other anti-proliferative   cytotoxic agents are navelbene,        CPT- 11,    anastrazole,
        letrazole, capecitabine, reloxafine, cyclophosphamide, ifosamide, and droloxafine.
[00261]          Microtubule affecting agents that have antiproliferative activity are also suitable for
        use and include, but are not limited to, allocolchicine (NSC 406042), Halichondrin B (NSC
        609395), colchicine (NSC 757), colchicine derivatives (e.g., NSC 33410), dolstatin 10
        (NSC 376128), maytansine (NSC 153858), rhizoxin (NSC 332598), paclitaxel (Taxol@),
        Taxol@ derivatives, docetaxel (Taxotere@), thiocolchicine (NSC 361792), trityl cysterin,
        vinblastine sulfate, vincristine sulfate, natural and synthetic epothilones including but not
        limited to, eopthilone A, epothilone B, discodermolide; estramustine, nocodazole, and the
        like.
                                                   59

[002621          Hormone modulators and steroids (including synthetic analogs) that are suitable for
        use include, but are not limited to, adrenocorticosteroids, e.g. prednisone, dexamethasone,
        etc.; estrogens and pregestins, e.g. hydroxyprogesterone caproate, medroxyprogesterone
        acetate, megestrol acetate, estradiol, clomiphene, tamoxifen; etc.; and adrenocortical
        suppressants, e.g. aminoglutethimide; 17a-ethinylestradiol; diethylstilbestrol, testosterone,
        fluoxymesterone, dromostanolone propionate, testolactone, methylprednisolone, methyl
        testosterone, prednisolone, triamcinolone, chlorotrianisene, hydroxyprogesterone,
        aminoglutethimide, estramustine, medroxyprogesterone acetate, leuprolide, Flutamide
        (Drogenil), Toremifene (Fareston), and Zoladex@. Estrogens stimulate proliferation and
        differentiation, therefore compounds that bind to the estrogen receptor are used to block this
        activity. Corticosteroids may inhibit T cell proliferation.
[00263]          Other chemotherapeutic agents include metal complexes, e.g. cisplatin (cis-DDP),
        carboplatin, etc.; ureas, e.g. hydroxyurea; and hydrazines, e.g. N-methylhydrazine;
        epidophyllotoxin; a topoisomerase inhibitor; procarbazine; mitoxantrone; leucovorin;
        tegafur; etc.. Other anti-proliferative agents of interest include immunosuppressants, e.g.
        mycophenolic acid, thalidomide, desoxyspergualin, azasporine, leflunomide, mizoribine,
        azaspirane (SKF 105685); Iressa@ (ZD 1839, 4-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenylamino)-7
        methoxy-6-(3-(4-morpholinyl)propoxy)quinazoline); etc.
[00264]          "Taxanes" include paclitaxel, as well as any active taxane derivative or pro-drug.
        "Paclitaxel" (which should be understood herein to include analogues, formulations, and
        derivatives such as, for example, docetaxel, TAXOLT M , TAXOTERETM (a formulation of
        docetaxel), 10-desacetyl analogs of paclitaxel and 3'N-desbenzoyl-3'N-t-butoxycarbonyl
        analogs of paclitaxel) may be readily prepared utilizing techniques known to those skilled in
        the art (see also WO 94/07882, WO 94/07881, WO 94/07880, WO 94/07876, WO
        93/23555, WO 93/10076; U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,294,637; 5,283,253; 5,279,949; 5,274,137;
        5,202,448; 5,200,534; 5,229,529; and EP 590,267), or obtained from a variety of
        commercial sources, including for example, Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, Mo. (T7402
        from Taxus brevifolia; or T-1912 from Taxus yannanensis).
[00265]          Paclitaxel should be understood to refer to not only the common chemically
        available form of paclitaxel, but analogs and derivatives (e.g., TaxotereTM docetaxel, as
        noted above) and paclitaxel conjugates (e.g., paclitaxel-PEG, paclitaxel-dextran, or
        paclitaxel-xylose).
[00266]          Also included within the term "taxane" are a variety of known derivatives, including
        both hydrophilic derivatives, and hydrophobic derivatives. Taxane derivatives include, but
                                                   60

        not limited to, galactose and mannose derivatives described in International Patent
        Application No. WO 99/18113; piperazino and other derivatives described in WO
        99/14209; taxane derivatives described in WO 99/09021, WO 98/2245 1, and U.S. Patent
        No. 5,869,680; 6-thio derivatives described in WO 98/28288; sulfenamide derivatives
        described in U.S. Patent No. 5,821,263; and taxol derivative described in U.S. Patent No.
        5,415,869. It further includes prodrugs of paclitaxel including, but not limited to, those
        described in WO 98/58927; WO 98/13059; and U.S. Patent No. 5,824,701.
        SUBJECTS SUITABLE FOR TREATMENT
[002671          A variety of subjects are suitable for treatment with a subject method of treating
        cancer. Suitable subjects include any individual, e.g., a human or non-human animal who
        has cancer, who has been diagnosed with cancer, who is at risk for developing cancer, who
        has had cancer and is at risk for recurrence of the cancer, who has been treated with an
        agent other than a dimerizer for the cancer and failed to respond to such treatment, or who
        has been treated with an agent other than a dimerizer for the cancer but relapsed after initial
        response to such treatment.
[002681          Subjects suitable for treatment with a subject immunomodulatory method include
        individuals who have an autoimmune disorder; individuals who are organ or tissue
        transplant recipients; and the like; individuals who are immunocompromised; and
        individuals who are infected with a pathogen.
                                                 EXAMPLES
[002691          The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the
        art with a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the present
        invention, and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their
        invention nor are they intended to represent that the experiments below are all or the only
        experiments performed. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to
        numbers used (e.g. amounts, temperature, etc.) but some experimental errors and deviations
        should be accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise, parts are parts by weight, molecular
        weight is weight average molecular weight, temperature is in degrees Celsius, and pressure
        is at or near atmospheric. Standard abbreviations may be used, e.g., bp, base pair(s); kb,
        kilobase(s); pl, picoliter(s); s or sec, second(s); min, minute(s); h or hr, hour(s); aa, amino
        acid(s); kb, kilobase(s); bp, base pair(s); nt, nucleotide(s); i.m., intramuscular(ly); i.p.,
        intraperitoneal(ly); s.c., subcutaneous(ly); i.v., intravenous(ly); and the like.
                                                     61

        Example 1: Generation of CAR
        MATERIALS AND METHODS
[002701         The anti-human CD19 scFv was selected as the antigen recognition domain in CARs
        throughout the design optimization process. Figures 18A and 18B summarize the molecular
        structure of each CAR consisting of two numerically identified polypeptides. All
        membrane-anchored polypeptides are di-sulfide bonded homo-dimers. The membrane
        anchored polypeptides are depicted as monomers for graphical simplicity.
        Generation of CAR constructs
[002711         Sequence encoding the anti-human CD19 scFv was cloned from a construct. The
        human 4-1BB co-stimulation and CD3 zeta ITAM signaling chains were cloned from
        cDNAs supplied by Open Biosystems. FKBP- and FRB-encoding sequences were cloned
        from plasmids supplied by Addgene.
[00272]         Standard molecular cloning techniques (polymerase chain reaction (PCR), restriction
        digestion, ligation, etc.) were applied to generate lentiviral expression plasmids.
        Effector and target cell culturing conditions
[00273]         Human primary CD8+ T cells were isolated from anonymous donor's blood after
        apheresis (Trima residuals from Blood Centers of the Pacific, San Francisco, CA) by
        negative selection using RosetteSep Human CD8+ T Cell Enrichment Cocktail
        (STEMCELL Technologies #15063) as approved by University Institutional Review Board.
        Cells were cultured in human T cell medium, consisting of X-VIV015 (Lonza #04-418Q),
        5% human AB serum (Valley Biomedical Inc., #HP1022), 10mM N-acetyl L-Cysteine
        (Sigma-Aldrich #A9165) and 100 IU/mL recombinant human IL-2 (NCI/BRB Preclinical
        Repository). A Jurkat cell line expressing the Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) upon NFAT
        activation was maintained in RPMI-1640 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine
        serum (FBS), penicillin and streptomycin. K562 target cells from U. Penn were cultured in
        IMDM supplemented with 10% FBS.
        Effector and target cell engineering with lentivirus
[00274]         Pantropic VSV-G pseudotyped lentivirus was produced from Lenti-X 293T cells
        (Clontech Laboratories #632180) co-transfected with a pHR'SIN:CSW transgene
        expression vector, viral packaging plasmids pCMVdR8.91 and pMD2.G using
        Lipofectamine LTX (Life Technologies #15338). Infection medium supernatant was
        collected 48 hours after transfection and used directly for transduction.
[002751         Twenty four hours prior to viral transduction, primary human T cells were activated
        using the human T-Activator CD3/CD28 Dynabeads (Life Technologies #111-3 1D) at a 1:3
                                                    62

        cell:bead ratio. Jurkat and K562 cells were split 1-2 days in advance to ensure that cultures
        would be in log phase at the time of transduction. Transduced Jurkat and K562 cells were
        cultured for at least 7 days before experiments were conducted. Primary T cells were
        maintained at ~10^6/mL in human T cell medium for about two weeks until cells returned
        to a resting state. Expression levels of CARs encoded in the lentiviral constructs were
        quantified by detecting either fluorophore-conjugated antibodies or fluorescent reporter
        proteins using a flow cytometer.
        Quantitation of IL-2 production and NFAT activity
[00276]          Jurkat CD4+ T cells expressing CARs were mixed with cognate or non-cognate
        K562 target cells from U. Penn at a 1:2 effector:target ratio. The rapalog A/C
        Heterodimerizer (Clontech Laboratories #635055) were serially diluted in medium and
        added to reaction mixtures. After 20~24 hours of incubation, medium supernatants were
        collected and analyzed with BD OptEIA Human IL-2 ELISA Set (BD Biosciences
        #555190). Flow cytometry was performed to quantify NFAT-dependent GFP reporter
        expression in Jurkat cells as a separate indicator for CAR activity.
        Flow cytometry-based re-directed cytotoxicity assay
[002771          The cognate and non-cognate K562 target cells were engineered to express distinct
        fluorescent proteins so that both cell types in a mixture could be simultaneously quantified
        by flow cytometry. The target cell types were mixed at a 1:1 ratio and co-incubated with
        human primary CD8+ effector T cells at a 5:2 effector:target ratio. 100 IU/mL human IL-2
        and varying amounts of the rapalog (Clontech Laboratories #635055) were added to
        reaction mixtures. After 24 hours of incubation, samples were centrifuged at 400g for 5
        minutes. Pelleted cells were resuspended in wash buffer (PBS + 0.5% BSA + 0.1% sodium
        azide) and fixed with an equal volume of BD Cytofix (BD cat #554655) prior to flow
        cytometry. Ratios of the surviving cognate target cells to non-cognate target cells were
        calculated for each sample to enumerate re-directed cytotoxic activities of the effector cells.
        RESULTS
[00278]          IL-2 production elicited by the various CAR constructs was assessed. The data are
        presented in Figure 12.
[002791         Figure 12. IL-2 production triggered by five On-switch CAR variants. Effector    =
        human CD4+ Jurkat T cells engineered with CARs. Target        = K562 cell lines with or
        without the cognate CD 19 antigen. Amounts of secreted IL-2 by effector cells were
        quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
                                                   63

[002801          Figure 13. IL-2 production by control Jurkat lines in the same experiment as that
        described in Figure 12. Construct "125" encodes a conventional control currently used in
        clinical trials.
[00281]          Figure 14. Comparison between "122 + 206" and "197 + 206" in a separate
        experiment under conditions identical to those described in Figure 12.
[00282]          Figure 15 demonstrates pharmacologically titratable cytoxicity conferred by the On
        switch CAR "197+206" In the presence of the small molecule rapalog, the CAR effectively
        mediates re-directed cytotoxicity towards cognate target cells. At high dosages of rapalog,
        this On-switch CAR can signal as strongly as the "125" conventional CAR. Effector      =
        human primary CD8+ T cells engineered with CARs or a control vector. Target       =
        fluorescent derivatives of K562 cell lines expressing either the cognate human CD19
        antigen or the non-cognate human mesothelin antigen.
[00283]          Figure 16 depicts data for CARs constructed with the cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase
        Zap70 from the T cell receptor pathway as the intracellular signaling domain.
[00284]          Figure 16 shows data from Jurkat cells engineered with several variants of On
        switch CARs. The engineered Jurkat cells were co-incubated with K562 target cells with or
        without the cognate antigen (CD19) and the indicated concentrations of rapalog. As a CAR
        component, the Zap70 kinase (first and second structures from left featuring "199") was as
        effective as the ITAM (third structure from left featuring "168") in activating NFAT
        function. Addition of the 4-1BB signaling domain increased surface expression of the
        antigen recognition portion of the receptor and led to stronger signaling by "197+199". A
        non-signaling CAR (far-right) was included as a negative control.
        Example 2: CARs targeting mesothelin
        MATERIALS AND METHODS
[00285]         A number of chimeric antigen receptor constructs were made and tested. The
        constructs shown here encode three different anti-human mesothelin scFv as the antigen
        recognition domains. Figures 19A, 19B, and 19C summarize the molecular structure of each
        anti-human mesothelin CAR, with each CAR comprising two polypeptides. The
        intercellular portion of each anti-human mesothelin CAR comprises two 4-1BB co
        stimulatory domains, an FKBP and FRB dimerizer-binding pair, and an ITAM intracellular
        signaling domain. The three different antigen recognition domains shown here are anti
        mesothelin HN1 scFv, SS1 scFv, and m912 scFv. All membrane-anchored polypeptides are
        di-sulfide bonded homo-dimers.
                                                  64

        Generation of CAR constructs
[002861          Sequences encoding the anti-mesothelin were cloned from constructs or synthesized
        via gene assembly by PCR. The human 4-1BB co-stimulation and CD3 zeta ITAM
        signaling chains were cloned from cDNAs supplied by Open Biosystems. HN1 scFv-, SS1
        scFv-, and m912 scFv-encoding sequences were synthesized by PCR and, in some cases,
        codon optimized. FKBP- and FRB-encoding sequences were cloned from Addgene
       plasmids.
[00287]          Standard molecular cloning techniques (polymerase chain reaction (PCR), restriction
        digestion, ligation, etc.) were applied to generate lentiviral expression plasmids.
        Effector and target cell culturing conditions
[00288]          A Jurkat cell line expressing GFP upon NFAT activation was maintained in RPMI
        1640 medium supplemented with 10% FBS, penicillin and streptomycin. K562 target cells
        were cultured in IMDM supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS).
        Effector and target cell engineering with lentivirus
[00289]          Pantropic VSV-G pseudotyped lentivirus was produced from Lenti-X 293T cells
        (Clontech Laboratories #632180) co-transfected with a pHR'SIN:CSW transgene
        expression vector, viral packaging plasmids pCMVdR8.91 and pMD2.G using
        Lipofectamine LTX (Life Technologies #15338). Infection medium supernatant was
        collected 48 hours after transfection and used directly for transduction.
[00290]          Jurkat and K562 cells were split 1~2 days in advance to ensure that cultures would
       be in log phase at the time of transduction. Transduced Jurkat and K562 cells were cultured
        for at least 7 days before experiments were conducted. Expression levels of CARs encoded
        in the lentiviral constructs were quantified by detecting either fluorophore-conjugated
        antibodies or fluorescent reporter proteins using a flow cytometer.
        Quantitation of IL-2 production
[00291]          Jurkat CD4+ T cells expressing CARs were mixed with cognate or non-cognate
        K562 target cells at a 1:2 effector:target ratio. The rapalog A/C Heterodimerizer (Clontech
        Laboratories #635055) were serially diluted in medium and added to reaction mixtures.
       After 20~24 hours of incubation, medium supernatants were collected and analyzed with
        BD OptEIA Human IL-2 ELISA Set (BD Biosciences #555190).
        RESULTS
[00292]          IL-2 production elicited by the anti-mesothelin CAR constructs was assessed. The
        data are presented in Figure 19D-F.
                                                    65

[002931          Figure 19. IL-2 production triggered by HN1 scFv (Fig. 19D), SS1 scFv (Fig. 19E),
        and m912 scFv (Fig. 19F) On-switch CAR variants. IL-2 production by a conventional
        CAR (Fig. 19G, construct #358) was measured and included for comparison to On-switch
        CARs (Fig. 19D). Effector     = human CD4+ Jurkat T cells engineered with CARs. Target      =
        K562 cell lines with or without the cognate mesothelin antigen. Amounts of secreted IL-2
       by effector cells were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
       Example 3: Gibberellic acid as a dimerizer of On-switch CARs
        MATERIALS AND METHODS
[00294]          Figure 20A summarizes the molecular structure of the subject gibberellic acid
        dimerizer CAR. The antigen binding portion comprises the anti-human CD19 scFv. The
        intracellular portion comprises two 4-1BB co-stimulatory domains, a GIDI and GAI
        dimerizer-binding pair, and an ITAM intracellular signaling domain. All membrane
        anchored polypeptides are di-sulfide bonded homo-dimers.
        Generation of CAR constructs
[00295]          Sequences encoding the gibberellic acid dimerizer CAR were cloned from
        constructs. The anti-CD 19 scFv was cloned from a plasmid. The human 4-1BB co
        stimulation and CD3 zeta ITAM signaling chains were cloned from cDNAs supplied by
        Open Biosystems. GID 1- and GAI-encoding sequences were cloned from Addgene
       plasmids. Standard molecular cloning techniques (polymerase chain reaction (PCR),
       restriction digestion, ligation, etc.) were applied to generate lentiviral expression plasmids.
       Effector and target cell culturing conditions
[00296]          A Jurkat cell line expressing GFP upon NFAT activation was maintained in RPMI
        1640 medium supplemented with 10% FBS, penicillin and streptomycin. K562 target cells
       were cultured in IMDM supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS).
       Effector and target cell engineering with lentivirus
[002971          Pantropic VSV-G pseudotyped lentivirus was produced from Lenti-X 293T cells
        (Clontech Laboratories #632180) co-transfected with a pHR'SIN:CSW transgene
        expression vector, viral packaging plasmids pCMVdR8.91 and pMD2.G using
        Lipofectamine LTX (Life Technologies #15338). Infection medium supernatant was
        collected 48 hours after transfection and used directly for transduction.
[00298]          Jurkat and K562 cells were split 1~2 days in advance to ensure that cultures would
       be in log phase at the time of transduction. Transduced Jurkat and K562 cells were cultured
        for at least 7 days before experiments were conducted. Expression levels of CARs encoded
                                                    66

        in the lentiviral constructs were quantified by detecting either fluorophore-conjugated
        antibodies or fluorescent reporter proteins using a flow cytometer.
        Quantitation of IL-2 production
[00299]          Jurkat CD4+ T cells expressing CARs were mixed with cognate or non-cognate
        K562 target cells at a 1:2 effector:target ratio. The gibberellic acid-3 acetoxymethyl ester
        (gibberrelic acid-3 AM) pre-dissolved in ethanol (Toronto Research Chemicals #G377500)
        was diluted in growth medium and added to reaction mixtures. Gibberellic acid (gibberellic
        acid-3 AM) was used at 10 mM. After 20~24 hours of incubation, medium supernatants
        were collected and analyzed with BD OptEIA Human IL-2 ELISA Set (BD Biosciences
        #555190).
        RESULTS
[00300]          IL-2 production elicited by the gibberellic acid dimerizer CAR construct was
        assessed. The data are presented in Figure 20.
[00301]          Figure 20. IL-2 production triggered by gibberellic acid dimerizer CAR variant (Fig.
        20B). IL-2 production by a conventional CAR (Fig. 20C, construct "125") was measured
        and included for comparison to On-switch CAR. Effector        = human CD4+ Jurkat T cells
        engineered with CARs. Target     = K562 cell lines with or without the cognate CD19 antigen.
        Amounts of secreted IL-2 by effector cells were quantified by enzyme-linked
        immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
        Example 4: On-switch CARs with various co-stimulatory domains
        MATERIALS AND METHODS
[00302]         A number of chimeric antigen receptor constructs were made essentially as
        described for Example 1, except various other co-stimulatory domains were exchanged for
        the 4-1BB co-stimulatory domains. Figures 21A and 21B summarize the molecular
        structure of the CARs described here.
        Generation of CAR constructs
[00303]          Sequences encoding the anti-human CD19 scFv were cloned from a plasmid. The
        human CD3 zeta ITAM signaling chain and the human co-stimulatory domains CD28 and
        OX-40 encoding sequences were cloned from cDNAs supplied by Open Biosystems.
        FKBP- and FRB-encoding sequences were cloned from plasmids from Addgene.
[00304]          Standard molecular cloning techniques (polymerase chain reaction (PCR), restriction
        digestion, ligation, etc.) were applied to generate lentiviral expression plasmids.
                                                    67

        Testing of CAR constructs
[003051         Effector and target cells are cultured and transfected according to Example 1 using
        the on-switch CAR CD28 and OX-40 co-stimulatory domain containing constructs
        described (Fig. 21A-B, constructs "365+367" and "399+400", respectively) and
        corresponding conventional CAR controls (Fig. 21C-D, constructs "366" and "398",
        respectively). IL-2 production, NFAT activity assays, and flow cytometry-based assays can
        also be performed with the CD28 co-stimulatory domain containing construct and OX-40
        co-stimulatory domain containing construct as described for Example 1. Alternatively,
        subunits of on-switch CAR CD28 and OX-40 co-stimulatory domain containing constructs
        can be paired with subunits of constructs from Example 1 (e.g., "197+367", " 365+206,"
        "197+400", "399+206," etc.).
        Example 5: In vivo assessment of On-switch CAR
[00306]         An On-switch CAR can be assessed for its ability to mediate in vivo killing of a
        target tumor cell. In vivo tumor cell killing elicited by injection of T cells expressing the
        ON-switch CAR is assessed. Tumor cell lines that have been confirmed in vitro to express
        the cognate antigen and can be killed by CD8+ T cells expressing the corresponding CAR
        are used. Tumor cells engineered to express either the firefly or Renilla luciferase to enable
        bio-luminescence imaging to quantify tumor burden in vivo can be used. Tumor cells are
        injected into immunocompromised mice (e.g., 6~10 week old female NOD scid gamma
        (NSG) mice) either subcutaneously for subcutaneous tumor models or intravenously for
        systemic tumor models. The method of tumor implantation and the optimal number of
        tumor cells to implant can be based on conditions optimal for the tumor cell line used.
        Tumor burden can be monitored twice a week by bio-luminescence imaging and by caliper
        measurement when applicable. As soon as tumor burden is detectable, 0.5~2.5 x         10 ^7 total
        T cells (1:1 CD4+:CD8+) expressing the ON-switch CAR are intravenously injected into
        mice to begin treatment. A dimerizing small molecule drug (e.g., rapalog) is administered
        intraperitoneally in a vehicle formulation. On-switch CAR-expressing T cells can be
        injected repeatedly during the experiment to enhance the anti-tumor effect. Interleukin-2
        (IL-2) can be administered to enhance the anti-tumor effect.
[003071         While the present invention has been described with reference to the specific
        embodiments thereof, it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various
        changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the true
                                                    68

        spirit and scope of the invention. In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a
       particular situation, material, composition of matter, process, process step or steps, to the
        objective, spirit and scope of the present invention. All such modifications are intended to
       be within the scope of the claims appended hereto.
[00308]          Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
        "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply
        the inclusion of a stated step or element or integer or group of steps or elements or integers
       but not the exclusion of any other step or element or integer or group of elements or
        integers.
[00309]          Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
       been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all
        of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the
        field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the
        appended claims.
                                                    69

                                               CLAIMS
        What is claimed is:
        1.       A heterodimeric, conditionally active chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)
comprising:
        a) a first polypeptide comprising:
                 i) a first member of a specific binding pair;
                 ii) a first modulatory domain;
                 iii) a first member of a dimerization pair; and
                 iv) a transmembrane domain interposed between the first member of a
        specific binding pair and the first modulatory domain; and
        b) a second polypeptide comprising:
                 i) a transmembrane domain;
                 ii) a second modulatory domain;
                 iii) a second member of the dimerization pair; and
                 iv) an intracellular signaling domain;
        or comprising:
        a) a first polypeptide comprising:
                 i) a first member of a specific binding pair;
                 ii) a modulatory domain;
                 iii) a first member of a dimerization pair;
                 iv) a transmembrane domain interposed between the first member of a
specific binding pair and the modulatory domain; and
        b) a second polypeptide comprising:
                 i) a second member of the dimerization pair; and
                 ii) an intracellular signaling domain.
        2.       The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein the first
polypeptide comprises a hinge region interposed between the first member of the specific
binding pair and the transmembrane domain.
                                                  70

        3.       The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein the first
member of the specific binding pair is an antibody or antibody fragment, a ligand, or a
receptor.
        4.       The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 2, wherein the hinge
region is an immunoglobulin IgG hinge region or a hinge derived from CD8.
        5.       The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein the first and
second modulatory domains are selected from 4-1BB (CD137), CD28, ICOS, BTLA, OX
40, CD27, CD30, GITR, HVEM, DAP1O, DAP12, and CD28.
        6.       The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein the
intracellular signaling domain is selected from ZAP70 and CD3-zeta.
        7.       The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein the
intracellular signaling domain comprises an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif
(ITAM).
        8.       The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein the first and
second members of the dimerization pair form a homodimer in the presence of a small
molecule dimerizer.
        9.       The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein the first and
second members of the dimerization pair form a heterodimer in the presence of a small
molecule dimerizer.
         10.     The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein the first and
second members of the dimerization pair are selected from:
        a) FK506 binding protein (FKBP) and FKBP;
        b) FKBP and calcineurin catalytic subunit A (CnA);
        c) FKBP and cyclophilin;
        d) FKBP and FKBP-rapamycin associated protein (FRB);
        e) gyrase B (GyrB) and GyrB;
        f) dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and DHFR;
                                               71

         g) DmrB and DmrB;
         h) PYL and ABI;
         i) Cry2 and CIP;
        j) GAI and GID1.
         11.      The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein:
         i) the first and second modulatory domains are derived from 4-1BB;
         ii) the first and second members of the dimerization pair are FKBP and FRB; and
         ii) the signaling domain comprises an ITAM.
         12.      The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein the first
member of the specific binding pair is a single-chain Fv.
         13.      The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein the first
member of the specific binding pair binds an epitope present on a cell, on a solid surface, or
a lipid bilayer.
         14.      The heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 13, wherein the cell is
a cancer cell.
         15.      A mammalian cell genetically modified to produce the heterodimeric,
conditionally active CAR of claim 1.
         16.      The cell of claim 15, wherein the cell is a stem cell, a progenitor cell, or a cell
derived from a stem cell or a progenitor cell.
         17.      The cell of claim 15, wherein the cell is a T lymphocyte or an NK cell.
         18.      A nucleic acid comprising nucleotide sequences encoding the heterodimeric,
conditionally active CAR of claim 1.
         19.      The nucleic acid of claim 18, wherein the nucleotide sequences are operably
linked to a T lymphocyte-specific promoter or an NK cell-specific promoter.
                                                 72

         20.      The nucleic acid of claim 18, wherein the nucleic acid is in vitro transcribed
RNA.
         21.      A recombinant expression vector comprising the nucleic acid of claim 18.
         22.      A method of activating a T lymphocyte, the method comprising contacting
the T lymphocyte with a dimerizing agent and a second member of a specific binding pair,
wherein the T lymphocyte is genetically modified to produce a heterodimeric, conditionally
active CAR of claim 1, and wherein, in the presence of the dimerizing agent and the second
member of a specific binding pair, the heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR dimerizes
and activates the T lymphocyte, thereby producing an activated T lymphocyte.
         23.      The method of claim 22, wherein the second member of a specific binding
pair is an antigen.
         24.      The method of claim 22, wherein said contacting occurs in vivo.
         25.      The method of claim 22, wherein the activated T lymphocyte mediates killing
of a target cell.
         26.      The method of claim 22, wherein the activated T lymphocyte produces IL-2
and/or IFN-7.
         27.      The method of claim 25, wherein the target cell is a cancer cell.
         28.      The method of claim 22, wherein the first member of the specific binding pair
of the heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR is an antibody specific for an epitope on a
cancer cell.
         29.      A method of making the cell of claim 15, the method comprising genetically
modifying a mammalian cell with an expression vector comprising nucleotide sequences
encoding the heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR of claim 1, or genetically modifying a
mammalian cell with an RNA comprising nucleotide sequences encoding the heterodimeric,
conditionally active CAR of claim 1.
                                                73

         30.      The method of claim 29, wherein said genetic modification is carried out ex
vivo.
         31.      The method of claim 29, wherein the cell is a T lymphocyte, a stem cell, an
NK cell, a progenitor cell, a cell derived from a stem cell, or a cell derived from a progenitor
cell.
         32.      A method of treating a cancer in an individual, the method comprising:
         i) genetically modifying T lymphocytes obtained from the individual with an
expression vector comprising nucleotide sequences encoding the heterodimeric,
conditionally active CAR of claim 1, wherein the antigen-binding domain of the
heterodimeric, conditionally active CAR is specific for an epitope on a cancer cell in the
individual, and wherein said genetic modification is carried out ex vivo;
         ii) introducing the genetically modified T lymphocytes into the individual; and
         iii) administering to the individual an effective amount of a dimerizing agent,
wherein the dimerizing agent induces dimerization of the heterodimeric, conditionally active
CAR, wherein said dimerization provides for activation of the genetically modified T
lymphocytes and killing of the cancer cell, thereby treating the cancer.
         33.      The method of claim 32, wherein the dimerizing agent is a rapalog.
         34.      A method of modulating the activity of a host cell, the method comprising
contacting the host cell with a dimerizing agent and a second member of a specific binding
pair, wherein the T lymphocyte is genetically modified to produce a heterodimeric,
conditionally active CAR of claim 1, and wherein, in the presence of the dimerizing agent
and the second member of a specific binding pair, the heterodimeric, conditionally active
CAR dimerizes and modulates at least one activity of the host cell.
         35.      The method of claim 34, wherein the activity is proliferation, cell survival,
apoptosis, gene expression, or immune activation.
         36.      The method of claim 34, wherein the second member of a specific binding
pair is an antigen.
                                                 74

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                            !" # $ %!&'
                            &!(( )" *$+
                             +"   &, -- .
                            / 0 1    .           1       2   1 . 3 0   / 3            / 1
                            45     " 6
<removed-apn>
                  5     2$    &     & 7 )   8&
                        3 .
                        .) ( 9 $-           ! &9
                            :& #    9 ;8-:&!9- 8         ,
              $ ''99        $9 9$' '$99'9 9      '9 99 ' 99'9 ''99           '9 '9 99$ 9'99'99$''
              99'
                        21
                        .)    ( 9 $-        ! &9
                            :& #    9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              0       .-$    ! 2)8 <$-      #) .-$           !   !   ! 2)8    ! .-$   !     !   !
              /       .-$ .-$ .)' 2)8
                        3 .
                        .) ( 9 $-           ! &9
                            :& #    9 ;8-:&!9- 8         ,
              '$'9$'$$'9         '$ 9$'9'$ ''$''$99 '
                        21
                        .)    ( 9 $-        ! &9
                            :& #    9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                                                                     2$'

<removed-date>
              -!    -&    :      !   -     )   -!    -! . ;    !
                        5
                        3 .
                        .) ( 9 $-         ! &9
<removed-apn>
                         :& #    9 ;8-:&!9- 8        ,
              '$9$ 99$'$       '$9$9$'$9   $9$ 99 99 9 ' 9 '99           9 9 '''$'$ 9$'$' 9$99
              $ 9$'     '9$ '''9$$' 9$ ''$9$         $'   $$$ $      $$ $    '' $ 9$ '9$'$$$99$
              '$ ''$$9 '        $$$9 99    '$ 9 $99$      $9$ 9$$'$       $9$9 9$'' $' 999$ 9$     6
              $''   9$' ' '9$' ''' 9       ''$$9$'$        $   9 9 9$ 99$      $'9$$ 99 ''$'9$$
              '$$'$ $     ' 99$9     $9        '99$$9$' '' $$ $9'9          99' $9$9 '   9''$'''
              '''$99$$'9       ''$'$ 9$9 $'' ''9''        ''9 9'''9' ' '' ''' 9 ''' ''9''9
              ''$ 9 '$''       '$$$9 '9$ ''$' 9$''$ 99 ''99 ''            ''9'999 9 $9$'$'99 '
              99' 9$9$        '9$9 ' 9 9 $'''' 9 9$         $999'$9      $ '' ' $$' 9 ''$    9'9   6
              9$'99 99$9 '$$$''' 9         ''$' ''9 ' ''$' $$ $          '''' $' '$ $$99$9$ $9
              $ $$      9$' 9 9 9$$$ 9 9$'$9 '$99 $ 9$ 9$$'' $9$$9 99$$ '$'99$$'
               9    $$$$$      '$$9$' 9    '9$$$9 '$      '$9$9$'99$         $9 $9 '    '99$$$9$
              $     $9 $9' ' '' $'9 $      '9 $ ''$9       $9 ''''99 $$''$$99 9 $' 9$99' 9         5
              99 9$                                                                                5
                        21
                        .)    ( 9 $-      ! &9
                         :& #    9 ;8-:; ;       ,
              . ;   -     -& 0       #)   -&   #)    #)    )   )     !      ) .-$   )    !   -:
              . ; .)' <$-       #)   -     )   :     .)' .-$   )     -& . ;    -    )    :   :)
               ! . &      );    :)   -&   -&   :     2)8 . ;   -:    #) <$-    :    !    !   -
              :) /        #)     ) .)'     ! /        )   -: <$- 2)8        ) .)' 2#     )   -:
                                                               2$'

<removed-date>
                )   -:     )    -:    #) . ;      :)      )   !    #)     -        ) . &     !    -!    -&
                                         5                               5                             6
               -! . ;      -    .-$    #)   :) 2#      :      -&    -&    -: . &       #)    ! 2)8     :)
                                      6                            =                           =
               #) 2#       -:   -:    -:    #)    :       !   -!   -      #)   -:      -:    -:   -:    )
<removed-apn>
               -:   -:     -:   -:     )    -:    -:   -:     -:    )     -! <$-       :     !    -&   -!
                )   -: 2)8      -:     ! <$- .-$ 2)8          )    -&     )        !    ) <$-     #)   :
               #) <$-      )    -: <$-       )     ! 2)8 . ;       :)     -: <$-        )    );   -    .)'
               -& 2)8 2)8 .)'         :     -:     !   -!     );    !     -: <$-       -     );   -:    )
                                                                   5                              5
               -!   #)     #)   :)    :) . &       ) .-$       !   :      ) .)'         !    #)   -    -
                                6                             6                              =
               :    . ; . &      )    :      )    -& <$- 2#         !     :    0       . &   )    !    -&
                         =
               #) . ; . ;       #) .-$      -     :)   :)     :    .-$    :    /       :)    :)   :)   -:
               -:    )     :) .-$ 0         . ;   :)   );     -:   -&     -:   #)       ) <$-     #) <$-
                )    )
                       5
                         5
                       3 .
                       .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                         :& #     9 ;8-:&!9- 8         ,
                     5
              $99$9'$9'9 9$'9'99'9' $99$99$$9$ 99''9'999$ 99$ 9'9' 9 '9$'9999 '
               999 '9'99 9$'$''9' ' 99''99$'9' '9''''''9' 9$' '9$9$9 '$'''''9 '
              '$9   9'99       ' '$ $ 9 $ 9$ 9 '''9' 999            ''99' ''$9          ' '' '' 99      9 9   6
              9 ' 9$9 ''        $ 9$999           $9 '9                                                       5
                       6
                                                                    2$'

<removed-date>
                     =
                    21
                    .)     ( 9 $-        ! &9
                        :& #    9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                    6
              #)   #)   #) 2)8 .-$ 2)8 .)' 2)8 2)8            #) 2)8 .-$ 2)8         #)   -    .-$
<removed-apn>
               )   -& 2)8      !    )    ! .)' 2)8      -! .-$      :    .)' 2)8 .-$ .-$       -:
              -: .-$ <$- /          #) .)'    -:    ! . ; 2#       .-$    :    . ;   -    :)   -
              ); .-$ 2)8       ! .-$     -:   #)    :   -: <$-      !      !    !    )     ! <$-
              -    #)    !     :)   :
                    =
                    3 .
                    .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                        :& #    9 ;8-:&!9- 8        ,
                    =
              999 $''$$ '9''' 99''        $'9''$ 9
                    21
                    .)     ( 9 $-        ! &9
                        :& #    9 ;8-:; ;       ,
               )   !    -:     )    -:   )    -:    )   -:     )
                    3 .
                    .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                        :& #    9 ;8-:&!9- 8        ,
              $ '''$' 99 $'' ''$$$9 9$ 9 9999$ ''$'$9'''9 '9$99                  999 9$$'9'9''9
              9$'$99 '9'     '' '9$9 $ 9$99'''$ ' 9          '$$'$ ' '$$$'$$$             '$   99 99
                                                              2$'

<removed-date>
              9'''$9$'$$ $9$$'999            $$'     $ ' 9 $''9$$'9 $''$'' '$                99'$''9 ''       6
              '$$'$$''''        '999$'$     '$' ' '''      9$'$'$'99$ $$9 '$9 $              $ 9 99$'$
               $ '99 $ ' ' '99$9 '' '9$999$''9 $ 9$ 999$9 9$9$ '99$9                           9 9' 9     9
              '$ ' ''$'9        9 $$$$9     ''$$
                          6
                        21
<removed-apn>
                        .) ( 9 $-         ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;    ,
              0     -: <$-      -& <$-    -!    #)   -      ) 2)8       -: . ;       -: .)'    #) 2#
              2)8   :    .)'    -:   -&   #)    :    <$- <$- /          :)     #)    -: 0       !   -!
              . ;   -:    :     :    2#   . ;    )     ) .)' . ; .)' . &             :    2)8 2#    :
              2#    0      !    -:   :    -&    -! <$-     -     .)'    -:     );    -!   -!   -: <$-
              .-$   -& 0        ) <$-      -:   -& .)' .-$        :        !   #)    -      ) 2)8 . ;
                                          5                            5                          6
               :) .-$     :)    -: .-$    #)    -: /       2)8    -:    -      -    2)8 2)8 /       .-$
                                   6                             =                          =
               #)       ! <$- 2#     . ; <$-    -!     !    !     :        !   -!
                         6
                        3 .
                        .) ( 9 $-         ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:&!9- 8     ,
              $ '$ 99 9       ''9$ '$'$     ' ''9$ '$$ ''99 ''$$' $''9$ 9 9'                    ' $9
              ''''$$$''$ $9' '$$$'' 9$ '             '$' ' '9 ''$'9 99              '9$ '9     $ '$ ''$$
              9''''99999 $'$9 9 '$$ ''$$$9$ 99                   $$ 9$'' 99 $ '' 9' $'$             $$ '      6
              '$''999$$' $' '' '9$' '$$' $9$ ' $$$ 9$'''$ $ ' 9$$''$ 99 99 99$$
              '99 '''$99       9 $   $ 9$    ' '     99'$ 9'$$ 9 9$$ $'                                       6
                                                                  2$'

<removed-date>
                        =
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-          ! &9
                        :& #         9 ;8-:; ;         ,
              0     -        !   ); /        -! 0          ); /       -!     -:     !   -!    -! .-$    )
<removed-apn>
              .)'   !    :) 2#         -:    -! .)' . & <$-           :      -: 0       2#    -! <$-    !
              -! 2)8         ! /       .-$ 0       0       -! .)'     -: 2)8      -&    #)    !   :    -!
              #)    ) 2#         . &   -& .-$      :)      -: .)' . ;        ! 0        -! .-$    -&   -!
              );    :   .)'      :     :) 0        :        )   -: . & <$-        :     . ;   !   !     -&
                                          5                            5                               6
              .-$   ); . ;         !    :)   :) /          <$- 2#     .)' .)'     -      )    :
                                       6                              =
                        3 .
                        .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                        :& #         9 ;8-:&!9- 8          ,
              ''$$'9'''      99'' $'9'' $ 9            999 $
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-          ! &9
                        :& #         9 ;8-:; ;         ,
              -:    )    -:        )   -:      )   -:       )     )    !
                        5
                        3 .
                        .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                        :& #         9 ;8-:&!9- 8          ,
                        5
                                                                       2$'

<removed-date>
              $'$' '$$'       9$'9$''$' 9'9$'$9'99 999'9' $99 $'9$'''99$ '$$99$'9 9
               $ $$9'$'9      9$$ 9 $'' $9'$$'$'$' '$' $9'$ '                      ''$9$$ '$'$9' ''9
              9'''$999 ' $'$ '''''' $$$'99'$'$ $''$$'$$99 9 9$''$$'' 99 ' $9$$                          6
              '$$9 '9$'$ $$'$ $$'$           ''9''$''99    $9$' '$'$           '''$ '$$ $''9'$'9'9
              9''$''''9$ $''''9$9'$          ''99    $9 9$''' 9 9$ ' $9$'99$9 9$$''$9$99
               $9'$9'999       9$9$ '9$ ''999 '999 99 9'9
<removed-apn>
                        6
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-      ! &9
                        :& #       9 ;8-:; ;    ,
                        6
              .)' <$-    :    2#      ) .)'     ) .-$ . ; .-$ 2)8 .-$               :)   -&   -&   -:
               -& . &    -&     !    :) . &    -!    ! . &         !     -: .)' .)'      -!   -!   :)
              . ; <$-        ! . ;   :   .)' .)'     -: .)' . ; 2)8           -! 0       -:   -:   :
              2)8 .)' .)'      :     . & 2)8   -&    -!   -:       !     :) . &     -!   !    -&   :
              . ;   :   0     .-$    -! .-$    :)    )    -!   -        -: 0        :    -:   -! .)'
                                        5                              5                         6
              .)' .)'    -:    :      -: /     . ;   -:    !    :)       -&   -:     !   )     #) .-$
                                     6                         =                              =
               #)   :   . ;    #)    :) . ; .-$      ! /       0         -& .-$      ! 2)8 2)8 .)'
                        =
                        3 .
                        .) ( 9 $-        ! &9
                        :& #       9 ;8-:&!9- 8      ,
                      =
               9'9'$''$$ '9''' 99''          $'9''$ 9
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-      ! &9
                                                                   2$'    5

<removed-date>
                          :& #        9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                  ) .)'   -:       )   -:      )   -:      )    -:    )
                        5 6
                        3 .
<removed-apn>
                        .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                          :& #        9 ;8-:&!9- 8         ,
              $ '' '$'9$ $'''9'$''$ ''$ $$9$ ' '99$ 9$ 9$ $''$'                            9$   '9'9   9$$'
              ' '9$9$ '' $'''9 99'             '$$9''99$9 '$'         9'$'$       9'$'''9'$ '''9'$'''9
              9'9999 $9' $'''9$999$ '$99'99$$' 9 '$$'' '$ 99$$''' '' 99999 '999                               6
                  9'99 ''' $9$ 99 ' 9 999 9$'                  9 $ ' $9''9       99$$''99 $ 9' '$$'9$9
              999'99'$9$         9999'$9 $ 9       '$$'9 '       99   9999' $'''9          9$$ ' '''$'9'9
              ' '$ '$$9          9'$''$9'' 9''9' '' ' $99' '$999 $''$9 99 9 99 '9$''$9
              ''9'$'      9$     9 $9$$''      '$$'9 '9'9 ''9$99$$9               9999 99'$ 9''9999' $
              $ '9$'$$'$ $'$99$ ''' 9 '''$''99                   99 99'$'9 ''$ ' $999 9'$''$9''9              6
              '999 '$$'' '9'$'$ 9$$ '9$'$''9 ' $$'9 '$$'' $9''9''99$ 9 $9'$9'9
              '$'' 9$$'$ 99$99 $9$$ ''99$$'$$' 999' '9$'9                         '999''9'9 9 $9$$9' 9
              $$9$ 9$$'          ''$9$ 9$9 9 999$9$$9 '$''$9 $9$ 99$ 9' ''$ $9$' $9'$$
              9'9'99'$'' '99'99$9 9 9$99''9''9 $ ''$9'$'9                         ' $9$$'                     5 6
                        21
                        .)     ( 9 $-        ! &9
                          :& #        9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              0     <$-      )    :    -:    -!    -! . ; . & 0           .-$     -    -    :     -! 2#
              0     .)' 2#        :    <$- /       0       -!   -:    ) <$- . &        -: /       -! 2#
               -!   -     -!      -:   -!    -:    -!      -: .)' 2)8       :)    -!   -:   #)    -&   #)
              .-$   :        !    :    <$-   #)    :       -:   -: 2)8      ! 2)8 2#        .-$   ); . ;
                                                                      2$'    6

<removed-date>
              -       !     ) 2)8     -& 2#     0       :)    -:       )    :        .-$   :) <$-      :     /
                                         5                                 5                                 6
              2)8 .-$ . ;        -    2)8 . ;    :)      !    :        !     ) 2#          2)8   -!     -: 2#
                                      6                            =                                   =
              :     );    -! .)' <$- 0          . & 2#        -! . ;         -:      -: <$- <$-        #) <$-
<removed-apn>
              #)    -& . ;       )     )   !     -& . ;       -:   -! 2#             -     :)    :     <$-   :
                  ! .)'   -:     #) . & 2#      2)8      ) . ;     -: 2)8 <$- 0                  -&    :     :
              #) 0        -:     );   -! .-$        )    )    -! .)' 0               :) 2)8      -! . ;      -:
              .-$     !   :      -:   -!   -     :      -& .)'      !        :        !    :     . ;   -:    -:
                                                                   5                                   5
              /     :) . ; .-$        -! <$-     :      #)    #)   :)        :       .-$   :     :     2)8 <$-
                            6                                 6                                  =
              -&      ! 2)8      -: .-$    :) . & <$- . &          -         :        ! . ;      -     #)        )
                         =
              /     . &   -! . ;      :)   #)    -      <$-   -!   -&        :)      -! .)' .-$        -!    -:
              .)' /         )    #)   -:   -: 0         . ;   -!       !     :)      :
                       3 .
                       .) ( 9 $-           ! &9
                          :& #       9 ;8-:&!9- 8       ,
              $$$9''''9$ '$$$'$$$9         99 ' $ $ $             9$$$9$$9 9$              $ '$' $99$' $9$$
              $9 $9 9$$' $''$$'$ '' 9 ' $'9 '9 9'$                      99$' $$'$$'$$'$ $''$''$ '
              '$$9 '
                       21
                       .)     ( 9 $-       ! &9
                          :& #       9 ;8-:; ;      ,
                                                                       2$'       =

<removed-date>
               :    .)'   -: .)'      :    :      !   !    :)   -    2#   :     -& 2)8 2#      0
              .)' 2)8 <$-        -&   #)   #)    -&   -!   -! . ;    -:   :      )   :    .)' 2#
              2)8   -!    -!     -!   -!   -:    -:   :    -!    !
<removed-apn>
                        3 .
                        .) ( 9 $-          ! &9
                          :& #       9 ;8-:&!9- 8     ,
              $'$' '$$'        9$'9$''$' 9'9$'$9'99 999'9' $9$ $'9$'''99$ '$$99$'9 9
               $ $$9'$'9       9$$ 9 $'' $9'$$'$'$' '$' $9'$ '                 ''$9$$ '$'$9' ''9
              9'''$999 ' $'$ '''''' $$$'99'$'$ $''$$'$$99 9 9$''$$'' 99 ' $9$$                      6
              '$$9 '9$'$ $$'$ $$'$           ''9''$''99    $9$' '$'$         '''$ '$$ $''9'$'9'9
              9''$''''9$ $''''9$9'$            ''99   $9 9$''' 9 9$ ' $9$'99$9 9$$''$9$99
               $9'$9'999         9$9$ '9$ ''999 '99        99 9'9
                        21
                        .)    ( 9 $-       ! &9
                          :& #       9 ;8-:; ;    ,
              .)' <$-     :    2#      ) .)'      ) .-$ . ; .-$ 2)8 .-$         :)   :    -&   -:
               -& . &     -&     !    :) . &     -!   ! . &      !   -: .)' .)'      -!   -!   :)
              . ; <$-         ! . ;   :    .)' .)'    -: .)' . ; 2)8      -! 0       -:   -:   :
              2)8 .)' .)'        :    . & 2)8    -&   -!   -:    !   :) . &     -!   !    -&   :
              . ;   :     0    .-$    -! .-$     :)   )    -!   -     -: 0      :    -:   -! .)'
                                         5                           5                       6
              .)' .)'     -:     :    -: /      . ;   -:   !    :) -&     -:     !   )    #) .-$
                                                                2$'

<removed-date>
                                       6                         =                        =
              #)     :    . ;    #)    :) . ; .-$       ! /      0       -& .-$   ! 2)8 2)8 .)'
                          5
                         3 .
                         .) ( 9 $-          ! &9
<removed-apn>
                          :& #     9 ;8-:&!9- 8        ,
                      5
              $ '$ 99$ 9        ''' 9$9$      99 9     99 ' 9        '9 99 9$' ''9 '9 $'9 9$'$9'
              $9 99$''$' $'$'$ 9$ 9 $9 999 '99                   $999 ' '9$9      9$'' 9 9     '   99
              ''$ ' '''       999 9 9 9       '99'
                          6
                          6
                         21
                         .)   ( 9 $-        ! &9
                          :& #     9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                          6
              0      -    /        !   -: /       -     ! 2#         !   !    !   ! 2)8 <$- .-$
              .-$ .-$     -&     #)    #) 2)8     -:   -! .)'        )   )    ! 2)8 .-$ 2#      :)
              2)8    -:   #)       )   -:     )   :     )   -:   :       -:   )   !   )       ! 2)8
                          =
                         5
                         3 .
                         .) ( 9 $-          ! &9
                          :& #     9 ;8-:&!9- 8        ,
                      =
              $ 9 $9$ 9       '''9'999        ''99'''$9       ' '''' 99       9 99 ' 9 $9 ''       $ 9
              $999       $9   '9                                                                         5
                         21
                         .)   ( 9 $-        ! &9
                          :& #     9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                                                                 2$'

<removed-date>
              -    :)   -       ); .-$ 2)8       ! .-$     -:   #)    :     -: <$-     !   !    !
               )    ! <$-       -    #)     !   :)   :
                      6
                     3 .
<removed-apn>
                     .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                        :& #        9 ;8-:&!9- 8     ,
              ''   99''9$ '9''$ 9 ''        $'9''$$'9 ''' 99'' $ '9''$ 9                              6
                     21
                     .)     ( 9 $-        ! &9
                        :& #        9 ;8-:; ;    ,
              -:    )   -:      )    -:     )   -:     )   -:    )    -:     )   -:    )   -:   )
                      5=
                     3 .
                     .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                        :& #        9 ;8-:&!9- 8     ,
              $ 99 9 ''9 $ '$'$ ' ' '9$ '$$''9 9 ''$$'$'' 9$ 9 9'                       ' $9    '''
              '$$$''$$9'     '$$$''9$       '    '$'' ' 9 ''$'999           '9$ '9 $    '$ ''$$9''
              ''99999$'$ 9 9 '$$''$ $$9$ 99                $$ 9$''99       $ '' 9'$'$      $$ ''$'    6
              '999$$'$'     '' '9$''$$ ' $9$ '$$$          9$'''$$ '        9$$''$99    99 99$$'99
              '''$99 9      $   $ 9$ '      '   99'$9'$ $ 9 9$$$'                                     5=
                     =
                     21
                     .)     ( 9 $-        ! &9
                        :& #        9 ;8-:; ;    ,
              -     !   ); /         -! 0       ); /       -!   -:    !     -!   -! .-$    ) .)'
                                                                2$'

<removed-date>
               !     :) 2#       -:   -! .)' . & <$-          :     -: 0      2#     -! <$-     !   -!
              2)8    ! /        .-$ 0     0      -! .)'       -: 2)8     -&    #)     !   :    -!   #)
               ) 2#       . &    -& .-$    :)    -: .)' . ;          ! 0       -! .-$     -&   -!   );
<removed-apn>
              :     .)'   :      :) 0      :      )   -: . & <$-          :   . ;     !    !   -& .-$
                                          5                              5                        6
              ); . ;       !     :)    :) /     <$- 2#    .)' .)'        -      )    :
                                      6                       =
                       6 5
                      3 .
                      .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                          :& #     9 ;8-:&!9- 8       ,
              $ '99$'$99 99'9''9'9$            9 '999     9       9 $9''9$ '9$ 9 9'9'          '99'$''99
              '$''$'9$99        '$$'9 ''9 '''9$ ''9' '$9'''9 9                 99 '9 '9' 99$' '99 '
              9'9 9'9 '' '9''9 $ '            '9 ' 9'9 9 ' '9$9'$ '            '9'9      99$ 99$9   999    6
              $ 9'$'9'99 $'9 9$$9'' 9$99 $9'99 $                   '99''9' '9$$$'9'9$ 9 ' ''$99'
              '9$'$'9 9       '9'$'     9 $ 9 9'9'9'$9 999'$9'''9              '999 '9$$ 99 '9'9$$'
              99' '9$$99 ''99' 9''' 99 9'$'99' 9$'99'''''                      9    9'$9 ' 99 '9'$'$9
              '99$ '' '9 ' '$9 $9'            '9'99$'$9'       ''$$'9 '' $'''9'$''9 99 ''$'9$'
              '99$ 9$ 9$ '99$''9999 '9$$' ''$' $$'9 9$                     ' 9 $9'$9''9 99$9'$'9''         6
              $ '999 ''       $99$9$'9$' 99 '$9'9'            '$''$''99' $'9'9$$$9             $9 9 '''
              '9'9$'$99' $9''9$$'             99 '9 '$'' 99'9''$$'' $'9$'''9$9 $ $9'999 '
              999 9$ 9        $ '''$$'$9 '' ' $99$9            $99 9$ 9$ '99$$'$9$$ ''9'''9$$'
              $9 '9$      9 99'$'''9$9 9$$'           '$9 $9'9 9 ''9 $'9 '' ''$ ' $ 9 '$$'                 5
              9 '$$''9'' $9'''9 9$            9 $9 '99 ' $$''$''99            '9999$$9$' 9$' '99$'9        56
              $$9'99 9$' '''9 '9 '9            999$9$9 9 99$'999$99 9$ 99$9'                  '$9 9$ 99    6
              9$'$'$9'$$        9'$9$999      9$$9 9$'$       ''$ $9$999 9 '$'99$'9 $9'9$ $$9'             =
              9999$'$9$ $$99'9''99 '$ '999$ ' '$9$9'$'9'                       ' $ '$'$' 9999 $9$'9        =
              '$999$'$'' $'9 9$$''$ 9$$'$$'9 9                    99 '$$'9 '9'$ $$99          99 9$ $'9
              '$9$   '$$9        ''9 '9'' 9$$9        ''9      9$' '9'99 $'''9' ' $ 99'9$ '9'9             6
              $$'$$'9$'$        9'$9' ''9 9$ 9$$'' ' 9 '$$'9$'' '9$9''$'$$ ''9$'$9$9'
                                                                   2$'

<removed-date>
              '$$'$'$ '$        '9'9'$''9 '9$'$ 9$ ' 9$99$'9 '' $9$$9999 $ 9$ 9' '9''
              9 9$     ''9'     9 '99$''9 9'$''999 9 $ '9 '' 9$                    ''$'$ ''9      '''''9'''
              99'9 '9$9$ $'           99 ''   9''9$$'$'' '$''$'$ 99 9 ' '$'9$$                    ' ''99'$'
              9 '9 '9$99 $'' ' 99$            ''''$ '$$'           $99 ''$'' $'$$'$$9             ' '9$99'    6
              '$99 ''9'' 999'9$$9'            99 '9 ''         $$99''9$9          $9'99$$'$      9$'9'$9
              ''99 9 99$ $$'9$9 '''               '99'$9'$9 $'9 $9 $9$ 9 '999'9 9 $'9$'''$$'
<removed-apn>
              ''99'9 9$ $' '' $9'9 $999'$$ '9 $ 9$$9                         99 '9$$'       9 9 9$'99'9$'9
              '$ ' 9 ''$ '9 $ ''''            9$99$ ' '' '$''99              '    99 $9''99$ '$$'999 $9
              $$'$$'$ '$ $$'''99''$ '' 9$ ''99                      9$ 9'$'9 $'''9$$'9' '$ ''$' '9            6
              99$99$'$'       ' 99$999'$ $9 ' $9'9$ 9 9$ '$' ' $9 '9 ''$                         9 $9$$' ''   5
              '$''$ 9'99 99'$9          99    '$99' ''$' 9$'9'9$ '9 '$'99 '                  $ 9 $9$'99 '     6
              '99$'9$$''        ''$$'''99 999$''9$'9 $9$9$'$$'' 9 '$''9 '9 9 ' '99                            6 5
                           =
                         21
                         .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                           :& #       9 ;8-:; ;      ,
              0       2)8 . ; 2)8 .-$ .-$ /               ! 2)8 2#           2#    :)   -:    )   -    )
              .)' .-$      -! .-$      -!     -! /        !    :         ! .-$     -: 0      .-$ . ;   -:
                  ! 2#      !     ! .)'       -&    :     ! .)'          )    !    -:   -:   :) <$-    !
                  )    ! <$- /         . ; <$- .)' 2#          /     /       2#   2)8   -    -! .)'    -&
                  ! . &    -:     #)   :) .-$       -    .-$   -:     -:      :   .-$ /      :    -: 2)8
                                          5                                  5                       6
              .-$     -!    !     :     -! 2#       :)    ) .)' . ; 2)8 . ;             -:    ! 2)8    :
                                       6                        =                               =
              . &      ! .)'      :    2)8    :    . & .)' 2)8           )   -:     !   -! 2)8    -& 2)8
              -: <$- 2#         . ;    :      ! .)' . ; .-$ 0                <$- .)' . ;     :) <$- .)'
              -&      #)   );     :     !     -!    -:   -! .-$       ! -!         -& .-$    -    -    )
                                                                     2$'

<removed-date>
              -& .-$ 2)8         -& <$-     -!    :        !    -    .-$   #)   #) .-$ /        -! .)'
              0       2)8   );   :) /         )       )    !    #) .)'     -!   -! .-$     -! .)'     :
                                                                    5                          5
                  !   :)     )   -: .-$     -&    #) . ;        -:   :     2#    !     ! .)' 2)8 .)'
<removed-apn>
                                 6                              6                         =
              :       -!    -&   -:   #)    :) .-$         !    )     !    -    :)    -:   :    #) <$-
                            =
              :) /          :)    !   -       )   -& . ;        :    .-$   -:   :     :)   :    -     2)8
              -!      -:    #)   :    2#    . ;   #)       !    );   -&     ! <$-     -!   :)     !   :
                  !   :     .-$ . ;   -:      !   -       :)    :     !    :    -! .-$     :    2)8 . &
                  )    ) .-$      ) . & .-$           )   -: .-$ .-$ .-$ 2)8          #)    ! 2)8 .-$
                                                                                           5
              /       2)8    )   #)     !   #) /          2)8   -& .)' .)'      -    . ;   #)     ! . &
                            5                              6                          6
                  ) . ;     -:   :)   #) 2)8      -! 2)8 .-$ .)'           -    #)     ) 2)8 . ;      :
                     =                            =
              2)8 .)' 2)8 0           2)8 0       . ;     #)    ) <$-      :)   -!     ) 2)8    :)        )
              . ; 2)8       -!   -!     !   :     . ;     :     :     ! 2#       !    :    .)' . ; . &
                  !    !    -    .-$ . ;    -     -!       !    -:   :     -: . & 2#       -:     ) <$-
              .)'     -&    -: <$-    :) .)' 0            .)'   :    :     -&   -    . ; <$- .-$      -
              :       <$-    !   :    -&    -:    #)      -!    :    .-$ . ;    #)    -!   -! 0       0
                       5                          5                             6
              .)'     -! .-$     -&   -     0     /       -&    ! . ; . & 2)8         :)   -    <$- .)'
               6                             =                         =
                  !   -     -: <$-    :     -& .-$        -! .-$      ! 0        ! <$- 0        -! 0
                                                                     2$'

<removed-date>
              .-$   -:    -:      -: 2)8      ! /          :    2#    ! <$-      -:     :    .)'   -!      -!
              -     2)8 <$-        ) . & <$- .-$           -!    !    ! /        -& <$-        ) 0         -:
              0     :     :)       !    -!   -!    :       . & 2#    <$- /       .)' . ;       ! .-$ .-$
<removed-apn>
              .)' . & <$-          !     ! <$- . & .)' /             :) .-$      :      -      ) . ; 2#
                                            5                            5                            6
              -:     !        )   :    .-$    !    -: .-$ . ; . ;            )   :)     :)   #) .-$ .)'
                                        6                      =                                 =
                  ) .-$   -:      :     ); 2)8         !   :    );   :) .-$ 2)8         -!   :     -       . &
              2#    .)'   :       2#     )    ) .)'         ) . ; <$-     );       )    :)   -: <$-        #)
              0     );    -! .-$         !    )    :)      -:   -&   :    2)8    :)     :    :     0       :
              -: 2)8      -! <$- 0           .-$ 2#        -    -!   -&   -:     :     .)' 0       -!      :
              2)8 2)8     -!      :    2)8 2)8     -!       !   :) .-$       ! 0         ) . ;     :       );
                                                                    5                              5
              -     :)    :       );    -! . ; .)' 2)8 . ; 2#                !   #) <$-      -!    -& .)'
                                  6                     6                                    =
              0     .)' .-$       :     :)   :)        )    ! .-$     )   :      <$-    -!   -: 2)8 2)8
                         =
              -:     )    #)      -&    :    .-$   -! .-$ .-$        :    .-$
                          5
                        21
                        .)    ( 9 $-         ! &9
                          :& #         9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                        1 2 .
                        > ? > ?
                         # $+ &8 $9 ,              &   #       ) ' 8& 9$& @      ) ; $       , &       +   " A# )   &
                                                                     2$'

<removed-date>
                            $&   &    ' ) 8( $    - $   8&
                        5
              -:   )    -:       -:   )
                        6
                    21
                    .)      ( 9 $-         ! &9
<removed-apn>
                        :& #      9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                    1 2 .
                    > ? > ?
                     # $+ &8 $9 ,  &              #   ) ' 8& 9$& @     ) ; $   , &   +   " A# )   &
                       $& & ' ) 8( $              - $   8&
                        6
              -:   -:   -:       )
                        =
                    21
                    .)      ( 9 $-         ! &9
                        :& #      9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                        =
              -:   -:       )    -:
                    21
                    .)      ( 9 $-         ! &9
                        :& #      9 ;8-:; ;       ,
              -:   -:       )    -:   -:
                    21
                    .)      ( 9 $-         ! &9
                        :& #      9 ;8-:; ;       ,
              -:   )    -:       )    -:
                                                             2$'   5

<removed-date>
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #     9 ;8-:; ;       ,
<removed-apn>
              -:    )    -:      -:   -:
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #     9 ;8-:; ;       ,
              -:    -:   -:      )    -:
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #     9 ;8-:; ;       ,
              -:    )        )   )    -:
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #     9 ;8-:; ;       ,
              . ;   :    #) /         #)
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #     9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                                                      2$'   6

<removed-date>
              :    2)8 2)8      :
                         5
                       21
                       .)    ( 9 $-      ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;   ,
<removed-apn>
                         5
              :    2)8   -! 2)8      :    )     :   . ;   #) 2)8 2)8 2)8       :   2)8 .)'
                         6
                       21
                       .)    ( 9 $-      ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;   ,
                         6
              -!    !    :      #) 2)8    !     -: . ;    #)   #) /       #)
                         =
                       21
                       .)    ( 9 $-      ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;   ,
                         =
              :     )    :   . ;     :   #) /       #)    :    2)8
                       5
                       21
                       .)    ( 9 $-      ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;   ,
              :    :     :   <$- . ;     :    2)8
                       5
                       21
                       .)    ( 9 $-      ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;   ,
                                                               2$'    =

<removed-date>
              :     :)   -: 2)8 2)8      :     2)8
                     21
                     .)      ( 9 $-      ! &9
<removed-apn>
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;   ,
              -! 2)8     :      )    :   . ;    :    #) /     #)    :     2)8 2)8   :   2)8
                     21
                     .)      ( 9 $-      ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;   ,
              -! .)'     :      :    :   <$-    -!   :   2)8 2)8    :     2)8
                      5
                     21
                     .)      ( 9 $-      ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;   ,
              -!    !    :      #) 2)8    !     -: . ;   #)   #) /        #)    :   2)8 .)'   :
              2)8
                     21
                     .)      ( 9 $-      ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;   ,
               ) 2)8 . & 0          <$- 2)8 /        .-$ /    /     .-$   -&
                                                              2$'

<removed-date>
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-           ! &9
                         :& #         9 ;8-:; ;      ,
              #)    #)   #) 2)8 .-$ 2)8 .)' 2)8 2)8              #) 2)8 .-$ 2)8         #)   -   .-$
<removed-apn>
               )    -& 2)8           !    )   ! .)' 2)8      -! .-$   :     .)' 2)8 .-$ .-$      -:
              -: .-$ <$- /               #) .)'    -:    ! . ; 2#     .-$    :    . ;
                         5
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-           ! &9
                         :& #         9 ;8-:; ;      ,
                         5
               !    -:       !       ! <$- .-$     -: <$-    ! <$-     !      ! <$-     )    !   -:
              <$- .-$    -       /        !   :    :
                         6
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-           ! &9
                         :& #         9 ;8-:; ;      ,
                         6
              .-$   !    -       <$-      !   -:   -: <$- .-$    -:    !      !    ! 2#      -   -:
               !    -:   -       2#      2#   :    <$- .)'   :
                         =
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-           ! &9
                         :& #         9 ;8-:; ;      ,
                         =
               !    :    :)          !    ! . ;    -:    -   ! 2#   -        :)   -: <$-     -    !
                                                                2$'

<removed-date>
              #) .-$      ! 2#      ! .)' <$-
                     21
                     .)    ( 9 $-       ! &9
<removed-apn>
                       :& #       9 ;8-:; ;    ,
              ); <$-      ! <$- <$- <$-       -:   -: <$-    ! .-$    :    :)   )    !   !
              <$-   #) <$- .-$ 2#       -     -    2#   ); <$-
                     21
                     .)    ( 9 $-       ! &9
                       :& #       9 ;8-:; ;    ,
              <$- .-$ .-$     -     !   -:     !   -:   ! <$-     !   -:   !    !    -: 2)8
               ! .-$   -      !     ! .-$      !   :)   !    !
                     21
                     .)    ( 9 $-       ! &9
                       :& #       9 ;8-:; ;    ,
              .-$   ! 2)8 .-$ .-$        ! .-$ <$-      -    ) 2#     !    !    -:   !   -:
               !    -: <$- .-$     :    <$-    ! .-$
                     21
                     .)    ( 9 $-       ! &9
                       :& #       9 ;8-:; ;    ,
                                                            2$'

<removed-date>
              2#    ); <$- .)'          )    :   .)'     ) .)'     !     ! /           ) . ;   :) 0
              . & 0       #) 2)8 .)' .)' 2)8            -: 2)8    #) .)'    :      /     :)    -& 2)8
              :) .-$ 2)8 2)8 .)' . ; 2#                 .-$ .-$   :) .)'       )
<removed-apn>
                         21
                         .)   ( 9 $-         ! &9
                         :& #         9 ;8-:; ;     ,
              #)    :     :       :     :)   )      )    ) <$- /        . ; 2)8 . &      -:    -!   :)
              0     2#   0        .)' .-$ <$- . &       #) .-$    :     :      ) .)'      !    #) . ;
              <$-   #)        !
                          5
                         21
                         .)   ( 9 $-         ! &9
                         :& #         9 ;8-:; ;     ,
              .)' .)' . ;         -& .)'     ! 2)8 2)8 . ; .-$ /            :      2)8 2)8     -:   -:
              -:      ) 2#        .)'   #) 2)8    -     -&   -!   -!    -& .-$ . ; .-$ /              )
              #)      ! .-$       :     -
                         21
                         .)   ( 9 $-         ! &9
                         :& #         9 ;8-:; ;     ,
                                                                  2$'

<removed-date>
              :       :        ! .)' .)' /       -&     -:   :    -& . &      -!      !    ) . ;     #)
              .-$     -: .)'     -!   -    . &      ! <$- . ; .-$ /            !   :       )    -!   -&
              #)      -! .-$      )   #) .)'     -& . &      )    -& <$-       !      !    )    -!   #)
<removed-apn>
              -:      -    :) . ; . & . ; 2)8 . ;            !    :     2#    .)' 0       -&    -!   -:
                  )   -! <$-     :)       ) . & 2)8     :    !    -!     -! . &    :      2)8   -:    -
                                            5                           5                            6
              <$-     :) .-$      )       ! . & /       ) <$-      -    -: 2)8 . &         ) .)'      !
                                      6                           =                          =
              .-$ .)' . & <$-         :     -! .-$ 2)8       #)   -!    :) .-$        )   -     :    <$-
              .)'     )
                           5
                           =
                          21
                          .)   ( 9 $-       ! &9
                          :& #       9 ;8-:; ;      ,
                          5
              /       -& .)' .)'      :     :) .)'      ) . &     :     -:    -!      ) 2)8 <$-      -!
              2)8 .-$      -! 2)8     :    .)'   :)     )    :    2)8 .)'     -!   -!     -!    -:    )
              #)      -   2)8    -    -&    -! . ;      :) .)'    :     2)8   -! 2)8 .-$        :     )
              2)8
                           6
                           65
                          21
                          .) ( 9 $-         ! &9
                          :& #       9 ;8-:; ;      ,
                          6
                                                                  2$'

<removed-date>
              .)' .)' .-$           :    .)'   :    .)'   -     .)'   -&      :      ! /       !    :    :)
              2)8 <$-       -&      #)     )   -& 2)8     :      !    -!          ! <$- . ;    ) .)' 2)8
              .)' .)'           )   )    #)    -&     ! .)'      )    -: .-$         ) <$-     #)   -! 2)8
<removed-apn>
              <$- .-$       -!      -! .)'     -:     ! 0        )    -& 2)8         ! 0       -!   #)   :
              /        ) <$-        -: .-$ .-$      :)      !   -!        )       ! 2)8    !   -& . ; .-$
                                           5                                  5                       6
                  ) 2)8 .-$         -:    -: 2)8      )     ) 2)8 .)' . ;            ! 2)8     -! 2)8 .)'
                                         6                        =                               =
              <$-      )    #)      -! /       #) . & . &       :     -       -!    :     -    :)   -    0
              :       .-$ . ;       #) <$-     -    <$-   -:    #) <$-        :    .-$    -!   ! 2)8     -!
              -: .)'        -:      ! .-$      -: 2)8 .-$       -! 2)8        -!     !    -!   -!   -!       !
              -! .-$ . ; /               #) 2)8 /         :) 2)8      -!      -&    -!    #)   -! 2)8 2)8
                  !   -:        )   :      ) . ; <$- 0           !     ) <$-        -!    -!   -!   -:   :
                                                                      5                             5
              -! . ; 2)8             ! 2)8     #) .-$ .-$        )    -:      :
                                    6                           6
                            =
                          21
                          .)    ( 9 $-         ! &9
                            :& #        9 ;8-:; ;     ,
                            =
              /       -     );      -&     ! .)'      )   -&    :     0       ); 2)8 .)'       -!   #)   -&
                  !    !        !   -! <$- 2)8 2)8          )   #)    -! . ; .-$ .)'           )    :    -&
              2#      2)8   -!      -!   -! .)'     -:    -! .)'       ) .-$        -!    -!   :    -: .)'
                                                                      2$'

<removed-date>
               !    -: . ;        !   ); <$-
                        5
                        21
                        .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
<removed-apn>
                          :& #       9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                        5
              :     <$-     :    .)' .)'      :     2)8 .)'   -: . ; <$- <$-         :    <$-   -    <$-
               ) <$-        -& .)'    :       .)'   -&   -! .-$    -!     -:   -! .-$     #) <$-     -
              -! .-$         !   -& .-$ 2)8 2)8 . ; <$-            #)     #) <$- .-$ <$-        -!   -!
              #)    -     2)8     ) 2#        #)    -: .)'     ) 2)8 . & /
                        5
                         =
                        21
                        .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
                          :& #       9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                        5
               !    -!      -!    ) <$- .-$          ! .)'    -    -      #)   -!    -: .-$     )    -
               ! .)'        -&   -!   :       . &    !   ! . ;     -     . ; .-$ 2)8 <$-        #) <$-
              :     -: . ;       -    /       -:    -& 2#     2#   . ;     ! 0       :     ! 2#      -!
              <$-   -:      -:    ) 2)8 .-$ . &          #) .)'    :)      ! 2#       !   -: . ;     :)
              <$- . ; .)'        -:   :) 2#          )   -    -!   :     <$-     !   :)    !    ); .-$
                                         5                               5                         6
               !    :       -     !    :) 2)8       :    #)    ! 2#        !     ! .)'    -: . & /
                                      6                          =                           =
              -!    :     .)' /           !   #)    -!   :) 2#     #) 2#       :     -&   -!    :    :
                                                                   2$'

<removed-date>
              -       :       :)       )   -! .)' <$-       :) . ; .-$        :        0       . ; .-$ 2#       . ;
              :        ! 2)8           ! .-$ .-$        ! 0       . &   -&    -& 2#              !   :     <$- /
              -:      -:       !       ) 2)8     -!   -     . &   #)     ! . ; . ;              -    .)'   :       !
<removed-apn>
              . ; .)' 2#           :       -! 2)8 2)8 .-$         :)    -: 2)8 0                :    . ;   -       !
                                                                        5                                  5
              );       ) . ; 2)8            !    -! . ; 2#        -: . &      -!       :        #)   -&    -! /
                              6                                   6                                  =
              2#      #) /         . &     #) <$- .)'       -:    :      )    :) 2#             :)    )    :) 2)8
                          =
              .-$ <$-         :    -! 2#         !    -& /        . & . &      !           !     )   -      ! .)'
              .-$ /           -! .-$       -& . ; .-$       -:    :) .)' 0             :) .)'        :      )   -&
              #)      #)      -: 2#        2)8   )      !   -     #)    -     2#           ) .-$ 2)8 . &        :)
                  ! . ; <$-        :) . & . &         :     .-$ .-$ <$-        !       :        :)   -! . & . &
                                                                                                     5
              <$- 0        . &     -       .)'   -& 2#      . &   :      ) 2)8 /               2)8   :)    );      !
                            5                                6                                  6
              2)8 . & 2#           0
                   =
                          5
                          21
                          .)      ( 9 $-         ! &9
                           :& #        9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                          5
              0       <$- . & 2)8          #) <$- 2#        2#    . ;   -     .-$ <$- . ;            -:    -! 2)8
                  !   -: .)' <$-            ) 2#      -!      ! 2#      .-$ . ;        :       <$- 2)8     :    #)
                                                                        2$'        5

<removed-date>
              .-$   -! . & 2#          .)' .-$       !    )   #)    -:      -!    :     -: 2#           -:    :)
              :     -:       )   :     2#   /    .)'     -    -     2)8     -: 2#       0       :       -&    -:
              -: . ; 2#          #) .)' /        . &     -:   #)    -:       -:   :         )   -       :)     -:
                                        5                                   5                                 6
<removed-apn>
              -!    :    2#      -! . ;     -! . & 2#         -         !   :     /     #)      -: 2)8        -:
                                    6                               =                              =
              -     !        ) 0       .-$ . & .-$       -: 2)8 . &         #) . &      -:          )   -& 2#
              2#    -       :    #) .-$     :     #)     -!   );        ! . ;     -:    :       /       <$- <$-
              2#    -:      :    <$-   :    -!    -: 0        . &   -       <$-   -! .-$ 0              -! .)'
              2#    -:       ) .)' . &      -:    :      #)     )   :       :     -     #)      -       .-$ . ;
              :     -:      -&     !   -!
                        5
                        6
                        21
                        .)      ( 9 $-      ! &9
                         :& #        9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                        5
              0     ) . &          )   :) . ;        )    )     )   -       :     <$-       !   :       -:        !
              . ; .-$ <$- .)'          :    .)' 2)8      -: 0       :)      -     -: . ;        #) . ; . ;
              -:    #)      -:     ! /      /    0       <$- 2#     -! <$- <$- . ; . & .-$                    -
              . ;   -! .-$         ! .-$    -: /         :    :     -!      -     -     <$-     #)      -     /
              .-$ . ; . &          ) <$-        ) <$-    -& . ; . ;          -: .)'     -:      -       2)8    #)
                                            5                               5                                 6
              -:    -    /       2)8   -!   -!    -: <$-        ) .-$ .-$ -! <$-                -       0     #)
                                                                   2$'   6

<removed-date>
                                     6                              =                                =
              <$-    ! /       .-$   -:    -:    :    2#    . ; . ; . &           )    :)      :     <$-      )
              -:    -:     ! /       -: <$-      -: <$-         ) <$- <$- . & .-$               !        )   -&
              :      !    -!     ! <$-     -     -& .)'     -!      -:      :    -     /       .)'   -&      -
<removed-apn>
              :)    -! /       -: <$- 2)8        -& .-$ 2)8             ! .-$ <$-      #)      -:    -!      #)
              -!    :     #)   -:    #) 0        <$- .)' 2#         ); 2)8        )        !   -!    #) 2#
                                                                    5                                5
              #) . & <$-       #)    -! 2#       -!   :)    -!      -       ! .-$      :       .)'       ! .)'
                               6                            6                                   =
              -!     !     ) 2#          ! . &    )   -: <$-            )   -    .)'       ! .)' . ;         :
                          =
              .)' . ;     -:   :     -! . ; /         2#    /       :)      -!   -:    -:      -     :       .-$
              2#    <$-   -!   :)        ! . &   :    . &   :       #) 2)8       -     /       2)8 . &       -
              2#    :) 2#        )   #)    -!    :    . ;   -:      -       -: <$-     -! <$- .-$             !
              -&    ); . & . ;       -: 2#       -&   -! . &        -       :)   :     2#      #) . & . &
                                                                                               5
              -     2)8   -& .)' . ;       -:    -:   #) /              ! .-$    -: 2#         .)' .-$ .-$
                          5                           6                              6
              0     #) .)'     #)        ! . & .-$    :) 0          . ;     :    -!    -:      :)        )   :
                    =                           =
              :     .-$   :    <$-       ) .-$   #)   -: . ; . ; .-$ .)'               -!      -:        !   -
              .-$ <$- <$-        ) <$-     :     <$- 2)8 . ; 2)8            :    2#        )    )    -&      #)
              :     . ;   :      ! <$-      )     )   -! <$-        :       ) .-$ <$-          -!    -&      -&
              0     . &   -!     !       ! .-$   -!   :)        !    ! -! . & 2)8              #) . ; .-$
                                                                    2$'  =

<removed-date>
              :       -     <$- <$-   -:   :     -     -     . ; .-$ .-$ .)' .-$ .)'             -! .-$
                      5                          5                        6
              .-$ .)' .)' .-$ .)'          -! 0        #) .)' .)'        :     -: .-$       ! . ;          !
               6                           =                             =
              .-$     -:     ! 2)8    -:   :       ! .-$ . ;       :     -&    -! .)' . ; 2)8 .-$
<removed-apn>
                  !    )    -!    !   :)     ! <$-     -!     -: . ;      ) .-$     -:      -:    ) .-$
              :       -&    -: .)' . & .)'       :     . &    -& .-$     -      ! 2)8       !    :     -:
              :       -      ! . & <$-     -!    :     .-$ .)' 2#        . ;   :    0       !     )        )
              -&      -! <$- .-$      #)    !    -     #) .-$       !    -:    :    -:      -    -: .)'
                                           5                             5                           6
              . ;     -!    :) . & 2)8 . ;       :      ! .)'      :) /         )   -       -    -     0
                                    6                              =                             =
              #) . ; .-$ . ; <$- . ;             -:     ) /        -     .)'   #)       !   !     !    #)
              2#      2#    :) .)'    -& 0       2)8   -!     -    <$-   -! .)'     -: /         <$-   :)
              -       .-$   -& 2)8 2)8       !   :)    :     <$-   :     :     -:   :       -&   -!    -&
              :)      -     :    . ; . ;   -! .-$ 0          . ;   -&    :)    -&   -       )    -     .-$
                  ! . ;     -: .-$    #)     ! /       #) . & .-$         ) .-$ 2)8 .-$           ! .-$
                                                               5                                 5
              -:      -! .-$      !   -!   :       ! <$-       )   -!    :) . & .-$         #)   -&    :
                                 6                            6                             =
              0       -     . & .)' 0      -! .)' .)'         :) 2)8     :     .-$ 0        !    :     -!
                             =
                  !   -     :)   -& 2)8    #)      !   #)     -! .-$ . ;        !       ) . ;    -!    -&
              #) <$-        #) .)'    ); <$- . & .-$           ! <$-      )    -!       ! . & . ;      :
                                                                  2$'

<removed-date>
              -!    -& /         -:     )    -&    );    :    2#   . ; <$- /            #) . & .-$           -!
              -& . &        ! 2#       -! 2)8      -     <$- .)' <$- .)'        #) /         -: <$- . ;
                                                                                             5
              #) . ;        :) 2)8      ! . ; /          -! 2#     -       #)   -:      -:   -!      :) .)'
<removed-apn>
                            5                            6                              6
              .)'   -       :    #)     !    -:    -!    :      ! .)'      -:       !    !   -!      -! . ;
                    =                              =                            5
              .-$ 2#        -    -! .)'       -:   -! .)' .)'      -& 2)8 <$- .-$                ) 2#         -!
              5                              5                        5                                      5
              -& .-$        ! . ;       );    ! <$-      :    -!       ) .)' .)'        -:       !       )   -
                                       5                           5                                 5
              -& .)'        :)    :    -:     !    -:    -! 0      . & 2)8      -!      -&       !   );      -!
                                 5                          5                                5
              #)    #) 0         . ; 2)8     -!     ) .)' .)' 0            ! .)' <$-         #) <$-          :
                       5                              5                          5
              . ; .-$       -    .-$ .-$ . ;        -&    ! 2#     #)      #)     ! 0        -: . ; .-$
                  55                               55                           56
              <$-   -! 2)8 .)' .)' .-$ 2#                -    -!   -! . & .-$            !   :       .-$ .-$
              56                   5=                                 5=                                 6
              . &   -     . ;    -
                        5
                         65
                        21
                        .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                          :& #        9 ;8-:; ;     ,
                        5
              0     <$-     -:    )     ! . &      :     -    <$- .-$ <$-           )   -& . & 0             -:
              -     -:      :    . &   -: . ;       ! 2)8     ); 2)8 2)8            ! .)' . &        -! 2#
              .)'   :) 2#        -& .)' 0          #)    #)   #)       )   ) <$-        -!   -:      :       -&
                                                                   2$'

<removed-date>
              . &    ! <$-       -   0     -:    :    :     #)    ); 2#            )   -     2)8   -!   :
              . & .)' 2)8        !    :     -: .)'    -     . &       ! <$-        !    ) .)'      -!       !
                                           5                            5                               6
              :     -! 2)8 2)8        -&   -: .-$ /         2#        !    ) .)'        )     ! . ; . ;
                                     6                            =                             =
<removed-apn>
              .-$    !     :     !    #)   -!    -& 2)8     -!        ! .-$ . &        :     <$- . ; 0
              <$-   );     -   <$-    -:   -:     )    ) <$-      :)      :    -! .-$ 0            . & /
              2)8   -: /         !    :      ! 2#     <$-   #) .)'        -    0       -& . ; 2#        -!
                  ) . ;    #) 2#     2#    2)8   -!   -     . ;       !   -!   :       :)    :      !       !
              2)8   -!     :) 2)8     -: <$-      !    ) . ; <$-          -&   -!      -!    :     -:   -
                                                              5                                    5
              :     :)     :   2#     -! <$-     :)   -!    :     . & . ;
                                6                           6
                       5
                       21
                       .)      ( 9 $-      ! &9
                          :& #       9 ;8-:; ;    ,
                       5
              0     .-$     ) .)'     -: <$-     -& <$-     -!    #)      -        ) 2)8     -: . ;     -:
              .)'   #) 2#      2)8    :    .)'   -:   -&    #)    :       <$- <$- /          :)    #)   -:
              0      !     -! . ;     -:   :     :    <$- . ;         )    ) .)' . ; .)' . &            :
              2)8 2#       :   2#    0       !   -:   :     -&    -! <$-       -       .)'   -:    );   -!
              -!    -: <$- .-$        -& 0        ) <$-     -:    -& .)' .-$           :      !    #)    -
                                         5                           5                                  6
                  ) 2)8 . ;      :) .-$    :)    -: .-$     #)    -: /         2)8     -:    -     -    2)8
                                                                  2$'

<removed-date>
                                        6                              =                             =
              2)8 /         .-$    #)       ! <$- 2#       . ; <$-     -!        !     !   :     !   -!
                          5
                           6
                          21
                          .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
<removed-apn>
                            :& #       9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                          5
              0       . &     -: . ;    -!      #)   :     :     <$-   -!        )    -!   :)   -    :       :
              /       /     .)' /       -!       ! <$-     -!     )    -&    :         )    )   #)       ! <$-
              :       /       -    :    .-$ 2)8        ! /        ! <$-      );        )   -    <$- .)' .)'
              2#      . ;     -! 2)8    -&      :    :)    :     2)8 2#      -         ) .)'    :    <$- <$-
              -&      -:      :    :        !    -! <$-    -:     ) <$- .)'           -! <$- . ;         !    :
                                                5                       5                                    6
                  )   -:        ! 2)8 .-$       #)   :       )   #)     -! <$-         !   -!   -        ! . ;
                                      6                                =                             =
              . ; . &         -! /      -        !   -:    -     .)'   -     <$-      -:   -: . ; /          .)'
                  !   :     . &    :)       )    )   #)    -      )        ! /         )   -!   #)   -       . ;
              -:      :       #)   -:   #)       ! .-$     -     -!        ) 2#      <$- <$- . ; <$- 2)8
              -!      -: . &       #)   :       -!   -!    #)    :     2#    2#      <$-   -! .-$        !   -
              -&      :     . &      ! . &       )     ! .-$ . ; <$-         #)       -! .)'     !   -& .-$
                                                                  5                                  5
              -!          ) 0      -!   :       :    -
                                   6
                          55
                          21
                                                                       2$'

<removed-date>
                          .)   ( 9 $-       ! &9
                           :& #    9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                          55
              0       -!   #)     )    -&   :       :) /       #)    :      -:      )   #)    ! <$-      -&
              #)      -    . ; .-$ 2)8          !   )      ! <$-     );        )   -     ! .)' .)' 2#
<removed-apn>
              . ; . & 2)8         -& .-$    :)      :    -& 2#       <$-    :      #)   :    . &    !    )
                  )   -: . ;      -:   -:   -!      -:     ) <$- .)'        -! <$-      #) <$- <$-       )
              -:      ! 2)8 .-$        -! 2#        ) .)'      -! .)'          ! . ;    -!    ! . ; . ;
                                          5                                5                        6
              -!      ) /       <$- 0       0       -      )   -      -     -:     -: . ; /        .)'   !
                                    6                                =                             =
              <$- . &      :) .)'       )   :       #) 0       .-$ 2#      <$- .-$ .-$ . ;         #)    -!
              -!      :    #) <$- <$- <$-           -!     )   :) <$- <$- . ; <$- 2)8              -!    -:
              . &     )    -!     -!   -!   #)      #)     ) 2#      .-$ . ;       #)   -    <$-   -: 2#
              . &     !    :      )     ! .-$       :      !    )    -! .)' <$- .-$ /               !    :
                  !
                          56
                            =
                          21
                          .) ( 9 $-         ! &9
                           :& #    9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                          56
              0       :    #)     )    -&   -!      -& /       <$-   :      -:      )   #) <$- <$-       -&
              #)      -    . & .-$ 2)8          ! 2)8      ! <$-     );        )   -     ! .)' .)' 2#
                                                                     2$'

<removed-date>
              . ; . & 2)8          :    #) 2#      :    /       2#    <$-   :       #)      :     :     ! .)'
                  )   -: . ;       -:   -:   -!    -:       ) <$- .)'       -! <$-          #) <$- <$-           )
              . ;      ! 2)8 .-$         ) 2#       )       !   -! .)'          ! . ;       -!     ! . ; . ;
                                           5                                5                            6
<removed-apn>
              -!       ) /       <$- 0       <$-   -        )   -      -    -:      -: . ; /           .)'       !
                                     6                                =                                =
              <$- . &       :)     -&    )   :     #)   #) <$- 2#           <$- .-$ .-$           -!   -!    -!
              :       #) <$- <$- <$-         -!     )   :) <$- <$- . ; <$- 2)8                    -!   -: . &
              #)      -!    -!     -!   #)   #)     ! 2#        .-$ . ;     #)      -       <$-   -:   :     . &
                  ! .)'      )     ! .-$     :      !       )   -!    :     0       0       -!     !   #)
                        5=
                        21
                        .)    ( 9 $-         ! &9
                            :& #       9 ;8-:; ;    ,
                        5=
              0       -!     )     )    :    -&    :    .)'     :     .)'       )       ) <$- <$-      -!    #)
              -       -! .-$ 2)8         ! 2)8      ! <$-       );      )   -           ! .)'      ) 2#      . ;
              :       2)8   -& .-$      :)   -& .)' 2#          <$-   :         )   :       #) 0       .)'       )
              -:      -:    -:     -:   -:   :     -:   -:      -!    -:    :       -:       ) <$- .)' . ;
              <$-     #)     ! <$-       )    -: 2#     2)8 .-$ . ; 2#                  )   #)    -! .)'         !
                                             5                      5                                        6
              -!      -!     ! . ; . ;       -!     ) /         <$- 0       <$- <$-          )    -     -    -:
                                   6                                =                                  =
              -: . & /           .)'     ! <$- . &      :)      :      ) :          #)      :     <$- <$- .-$
                                                                      2$'

<removed-date>
                  ) 2)8       -! . ; 0         .-$   :       :     #) <$- <$- <$-            -!     )   :) <$-
              <$- . ; <$- 2)8            -!    -:    #)        )   -!      -! . ;     #)     -    2#    2#      <$-
              . ; . &         -    -     .)'   :) . &          !   #)       )     ! .-$      :      !   #)      :
<removed-apn>
              :       0    0       :
                          6
                          21
                          .)      ( 9 $-       ! &9
                           :& #        9 ;8-:; ;         ,
                          6
              0       .-$ . &        )   -!     )        )     )       ) 2)8 <$- . &         -!   -!    -! . &
                  )   -& .)'       -       )   #)        ! /       /       -&    #) 0       2)8     ) . ;           !
              #)      -& . ;       -! 2#       #)    -&        !       )   -&     )   -     .-$   -! 2#         /
              #)      :)      -&     !   -: . &      -: .)'        :        )     )     !     ! .-$     -& .)'
              -       /    .-$ 2)8 2)8          -!   #) <$-        );       ) <$- <$- .)' .)' 2#                . ;
                                               5                              5                                 6
              .)' 2)8         -&   -      :)   :     /       2#    -        :     )   :     . & <$-         )   -!
                                         6                                 =                            =
              . ; 2#          -! 0       .)' <$-     -:      :     #) .)' . ; <$- . & <$-               -           )
              -:          ! 2)8 .-$ . &        #)        ) .)'     -! .)'         ! . ;       !     ! . ; . ;
              . ; .)' .)' <$-            #)    -: 2#           )   -       #)    -:   -:     -! /       .)'         !
              .)' . &         :)   :       ) <$-     #)      #) <$- /            .)' 2#      -!   :     -!      -!
                                                                           2$'

<removed-date>
              -!    -!       -! .)'       -     );   #) <$- <$-        !    -!        )    :) <$- <$- . ;
                                                                      5                            5
              <$- 2)8        -!   -: . &         )   -!    -! . ;     #) .)'          ! 2#      .-$ . ;    #)
                                  6                            6                                 =
              <$-   -    .)'          ! . &      !   -&    :     ! .-$       )    -        #)   -! .-$ 0
                          =
<removed-apn>
              . & .)' . & . & . & . & . & . &                    )      )   -& <$- .)'
                         6
                          =
                         21
                         .)      ( 9 $-         ! &9
                         :& #         9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                         6
              0      )        )       ) 2)8 .-$ <$-        :     -:     !   #) . ;         -!   -!   -&    :
              #)     !       -! 2)8 <$-         -    :     #)    :) /       -& 2#          -! 2)8 . ; 2)8
              #)    #)       :    #)       )     !   -     #)    -& .)'     -     /       .-$ 2)8 .-$       )
              <$- <$-        ); 2)8        !    -    .)' .)' 2#       . ; . & 2)8          -! .)'    :)    :
              /     2#   <$-      :       .)'    :   .)'    !    -      )    -: . ;        -: . ; <$-       -:
                                                5                           5                              6
                  ) <$- .)'       -! <$-        #) <$-     -     )     -:    ! 2)8 .-$           )    #)    )
                                     6                                =                              =
              #)    -! .)'            !   -! 2#      <$- . ; . ; . ; /            .)' <$-        !    ) 2#
              .)' <$- <$-         -:      -:    -! /       .)'   !    :     . &   :)       :     ) <$-     #)
                  ) <$- . &       -! 2#          ! . &     -& . ;       )   -:    :       <$-   :)   #) <$-
              <$-    !       -!       )   :)    #) <$- . ;       -    2)8   -!    -: . &        #)   -!    -!
              . ;   #)       :    0       2#    <$- . ;    #) <$- <$- :               ! . &      !   -&    :
                                                                   2$'  5

<removed-date>
                                                                        5                              5
                  !   -: <$- .-$ .-$         #)        ) .-$ 2)8 0            /       . ; . ;     -!
                              6                               6                                   =
                          6
                            =
                          21
                          .) ( 9 $-          ! &9
<removed-apn>
                            :& #       9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                          6
              0       . &     ! .-$ 2)8      -     /       . ; 2)8       )        )    )      )   #)   #)    #)
              #)       )      )    )    #) 2)8     :)      -:       !   #)    :       . ;    -! 2#      )    #)
                  ! . ;       )    -    -    .)'   #) /         /       #) 2#         2)8 .)'      ) 2)8 . &
              #)      :       #)   )     !   -     .-$ /        .)' <$- . ; .-$ 2)8 .-$ /                    .-$
              -       ); .)' 2#         <$- .)' . ; 2#          .-$ . & 2)8 . &              :    :)   :     /
                                            5                           5                                    6
              2#      -       :    )     :   #)    -       .)' <$- . &        -: . &         -:   -     :    -!
                                        6                          =                                   =
              -       :     <$-    -:   #)   -     .)'     -! <$-        ) <$- <$-            )   -:    ! 2)8
              .-$      )      #)   ) <$-     -!    -        !    -! <$-           ! . ;      -!   -!   :     .)'
              -        !      ) 2#      .)' <$-        !   -:    -:     -! /          .)'     ! . & . &      :)
              .)'      ) <$-       #)    ) <$- . &         -! 2#        <$- <$-        !     -!   :    . ;   :
              :       :     .)' <$-     :)    ) <$- <$-             !   -!        )   :)     -    <$- . ;    -
                                                                        5                              5
              2)8     -&      -: . &    #)   -!    -! . ;        #) .)' 0             2#    <$- . ;    #) <$-
                                  6                              6                               =
              <$-     :        ) . &     !   -& . &         ! .-$ <$-         -        )     #) .-$     ) 2)8
                              =
                                                                        2$'       6

<removed-date>
              #)
                          6
                            5
                          21
                          .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                              :& #       9 ;8-:; ;      ,
<removed-apn>
                          6
              0           ! .-$ <$- /          .)' 2)8       )     ) .-$ <$-          ) . ;       -: . ;      )
              <$-     -&      -    2)8 0       0       -    .-$    ) 2#      -&      :    .)' 2#       2)8    )
                  !       ) .)' . ;        )   #) .-$ .-$ .)' 2#             /       #) /         -! <$-     -:
              2)8 . &         -&     :    :        ) .-$ <$-      -    -&    -!      -        ) .-$ 2)8      -
                  )   #) <$-         );    ) <$- <$- .)' .)' 2#              . ; . & 2)8          -& .-$      :)
                                             5                               5                               6
              :       /       2#     !     :       )   :     ) <$-      -    -:      -: . ;       -: . ; . &
                                          6                            =                             =
              <$-     -:       )     ! .)'     -& <$- /           <$- <$-        )   -:       ! 2)8 .-$ .-$
                  )       )   #)     -! .)'        ! . ;    -      ! . ; . ;         -! .)' /          <$-   -
                  ) 2#         ) <$- <$-       -:      -: . ; /        .)'       !    ) . &       :) .)'      )
              <$-     #)      #)     ! /       2)8      ) 2)8     -     )    -:      #) <$- <$- <$-          -!
                  )   :) <$- <$- . ; <$- 2)8 2)8                  -: . &     #)      :     -!     -!   #)    :
                                                                      5                                5
              . ; 2#          <$- . ; <$-      -       <$- .)'    :    . &       !   -&       )    ! .-$     :
                                   6                              6                               =
              -       .-$     -! . &      #) .-$ .-$        -!     )   :     :       :    0       )     !
                              =
                          6
                                                                       2$'       =

<removed-date>
                          21
                          .)    ( 9 $-         ! &9
                            :& #        9 ;8-:; ;     ,
                          6
              0       .)'       ) 2)8 <$-      -&     !   -& /          -:     ) . ; .-$       #) . &     -:
<removed-apn>
              2#      /       #)     !   -& 2)8 /         . ;     -&    #) . ;     -: 2)8      -     :    .)'
              <$-     :         !   #) .)'     -: 0       /       <$- 2)8    -! /        <$- .-$ 0        /
              /       #) /          . ; <$-    -: 2)8 . ;         -&    :    :      )      ) <$- <$-      -&
              0       -     /       .-$ 2)8 2)8     -!        ) <$-     ); .-$      ! <$- .)' .)' 2#
                                            5                              5                      6
              . ; . & 2)8           :    <$-   :)   :     . & 2#        -    .)'   -&     :    .)'    -   <$-
                                         6                             =                             =
              -&      -: . ;        -:    ! /       <$-   -: . ;         ! .)'     -! <$- 0          <$- <$-
                  )   -:        ! 2)8 .-$ <$-         )       )   #)    -! .)'      !     -!   -      ! . ;
              -!      -! .)' /           <$-   -      ) 2#         ) <$- <$-       -:     -: . ; /        .)'
                  !   :     . &     :) .)'      ) <$-     #)      #)     ! /       .-$     ) . ; . ;      -!
              -:      #) <$- <$- <$-           -!     )   :)      -    <$- . ; <$- 2)8 2)8           -: . &
                                                                        5                            5
              #)      -!      -!    -!   #)     !     ) 2#        <$- . ;    #)    -     <$- .)'     :    . &
                                    6                              6                          =
                  !   -&       )     ! .-$ .)'        )   #) . & .)'         -&
                              =
                          6
                          21
                          .)    ( 9 $-         ! &9
                            :& #        9 ;8-:; ;     ,
                                                                       2$'

<removed-date>
                        6
              0    2)8      #)     )   -     -& 2#      -& .)'       )        )   #) .-$ .-$         -! .-$
              .-$ . & .-$         #) <$- .)' . &        :) 2)8 /          /       /       -&    :    -& <$-
              -&    :      <$-     )     !   #) .)'     -: 0        .-$ . ; <$- 2)8             -! /         <$-
<removed-apn>
              -!       !     ) /       #) /        <$- <$-    -: 2)8          )   -&      :     2#       ) <$-
              <$- <$-       -& . ; <$-        -! .-$ 2)8 <$-         )     #) <$-         );     )   -           !
                                             5                            5                                  6
                  ) .)' 2#        -! /       2)8   -& .-$     :)     :    /       2#      <$-   :        )   :
                                     6                              =                                =
              /    <$- <$-        -    -: . ;      -: .)'     -! <$-      -:          ) <$- .)'      -! <$-
              .)' <$- <$-          )   -:     ! 2)8 .-$ .-$ 2#                )       !   -! .)'         !   -!
              -    0       . ; . ; . ; .)' /            <$-   -      ) 2#             ) <$- <$-      -:      -:
              . ; /        .)'     ! 0       . &   :)   :      ) <$-      #)      #) <$- /           -!          )
              -!    -! . ;         ) . ;     -:    :    :     .)'   #) .)' <$- <$-              -!    )      :)
                                                                    5                                5
              <$- <$- . ; <$- 2)8 .-$              -: . & . ;       :     -!      -!      #)    :        ) 2#
                           6                               6                                    =
              .-$ . ;       #)    -    <$- .)'     :    . &    !    -&        )       ! .-$     :        ! .-$
                            =
              -! . &        #)     )   :     2#     )
                        6
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-          ! &9
                           :& #       9 ;8-:; ;     ,
                        6
                                                                    2$'

<removed-date>
              0     -! 0         -     -:   -: . ; . ;       #) . ;     #)    -! 0       :)      -: .-$
                  ! <$-   #) .-$       -&     )    ! .)'     ! .)' /           ! /       /       :     .)'
              -! . &      -&     :     #)     ) <$-     ! <$-     :     :)    -     -& .-$ 2)8 <$-
<removed-apn>
              /      ! <$-       );    )      ! <$- .)' .)' 2#          . ;   -& 2)8     -&      :     :)
              :     2)8 2#       -     ) .)'      :    #) <$- . &        -: . ; 2)8      -!      -      -:
                                         5                              5                              6
              :      ! .)'       -! <$- . & <$-        :     )     -:    ! 2)8 .-$       #)       #)     )
                                    6                             =                              =
              #)    -! .)'        !    -!   -&     ! . ; . ;      -!    -! /        -        !   -:    -
              . &   -     -      -:    -: . ; /        .)'   !    :     . &   :)     )       )   -       !
              #) <$- /           2)8   -! 0       -    . ;   -: .)'      )    -:    #) 0         <$- 0
              -!     ) 2#        <$- <$- . ; <$- 2)8         -&   -: . &      #)    :    . ; . ;       #)
              :     :) 2#        <$-   -!     )    !   -     :    :     . &    !    :        )    ! .-$
                                                                  5                              5
              :     <$-      )   -! .)'       ! .-$ .-$      -& . ;     -     #) . &      )      -     .-$
                                 6                           6                           =
              #) 2#       :      . & .-$      ) . &    -:    :) .)'     -!    :    . & /         #)    -!
                          =
              #) . &         !
                        65
                         66
                        21
                        .) ( 9 $-           ! &9
                          :& #       9 ;8-:; ;     ,
                        65
              0     -! .-$ . &         -:   -     -! . &     !    #) . & 2)8 . &         -&      -! .)'
                                                                  2$'

<removed-date>
              -! 2#           -     .)' .)' /          /       :    /       -!     ! <$- . ; . &        -&    :
                  )       )   #)     ! <$-        :    /       -    . & .-$ 2)8 <$- /             -     <$-   );
                  )       ! <$- .)' .)' 2#             . ;     -& 2)8       -&    :    :)   :     2)8 2#      -
<removed-apn>
                  ) .)'       :     <$- <$-        :   -: . & 0             -!     -   -:   #) <$- .)'         -!
                                                  5                               5                           6
              <$- . ; <$-            :        )   -:       ! 2)8 .-$         #) .)'     )   #)    -! .)'       !
                                          6                                 =                        =
              -!          !    ! . ; . ; . &           -! /         -        !     )   -    .)'   -     <$-   -:
              -: . ; /              .)'       !   :    . &     :)       )    )    -    -     )     ! /        2)8
              -!      #)      -      -!   -: .)'       -       -:   #)       ! <$-     -    -!     ) 2#       <$-
              <$- . ; <$- 2)8             -!      -: . &       #)   :       . ;   -!   #)   :     :) 2#       <$-
              -! .-$           !     -    :       :    . &     !    :        )     ! .-$ . ;      -      )    -!
                                                                            5                           5
              .)'         ! .-$ <$-       -& . ;       #)      #)   -!       ) .)' <$-
                                 6                                  6
                          66
                           65
                          21
                          .) ( 9 $-               ! &9
                              :& #       9 ;8-:; ;         ,
                          66
              0       0       . ;    -: <$-       -!   -:      -:   #) .-$ 0           :)   -:    -:     !    -!
              #) <$-          -&     :) <$- .)'        #) /         /       -& /        !   :     .)'   -! . &
              -&      :       #)     ) .-$         ! <$-       :    /       -     :    .-$ 2)8     ! /         !
                                                                            2$'

<removed-date>
              <$-     );       )   ! <$- .)' .)' 2#                . ;   -& 2)8    -&      :     :)   :     2)8
              2#      <$-      ) .)'    :        #) <$-       -    -: . ; 2)8      -!      -     -:    )        !
                                                5                         5                                 6
              .)'     -! <$- . & <$-            :         )   -:     ! 2)8 .-$     #)      #)    )     #)   -!
                                 6                                     =                              =
<removed-apn>
              .)'       !   -!     !        ! . ; . ;         -!   -! /       -        !   -:    -    :     -
              -       -:    -: . ; /            .)'       !   :    . &   :)   )        )   -     !    #) <$-
              /       2)8   -!     -    -       -!    -: .)' .-$         -:   #) 0         <$-   -    -!        )
              2#      <$- <$- . ; <$- 2)8             -&      -: . &     #)   :    . ;     -!    #)   :     :)
              2#      <$-   -! .-$          !   -     .)'     :    . &    !   :        )    ! .-$ . ; <$-
                                                                         5                         5
                  )   -! .)'        ! .-$        )    -& . ;       -     #)   -&
                                   6                               6
                          6=
                           =
                          21
                          .)   ( 9 $-           ! &9
                            :& #       9 ;8-:; ;          ,
                          6=
              0       2)8      )   -!       !   #) 2)8        -!   -! .)'     )    -!       !    :    . &       )
              -       .-$   -! 2#       /       #)    :)      -&     ! . ; 2)8     -:       )    :     )        )
                  ! /       .-$    -& .)'       -     /       .-$ 2)8 2)8     -!       ! <$-     );    )    -
              <$- .)' .)' 2#            . ;     :     2)8     -&   #)    :)   :    /       2#    -    :         )
              :         ) <$-      -!   -& . & 2#             -! 0       .)' <$-   -:      :     #) .)' . ;
                                           5                                 5                          6
              <$-     -     <$-    -        )   -:        ! 2)8 .-$ . & #)             )   #)    -! .)'         !
                                                                     2$'

<removed-date>
                                         6                               =                              =
              . ;     -        ! . ; . ;         -! .)' .)' <$-          #)      -: 2#        )   -     -     -:
              -:      -! /         .)'       !   #) . &       :)   :         ) <$-     #)    #) <$- /        .)'
              2#      -!      :    -! . & .)'            -    );   #) <$- <$-           !    -!     )   :) <$-
<removed-apn>
              <$- . ; 0            2)8   -!      -: . &       )    -! . ; . ;          #) .)' 0         2#   .-$
              . ;     #) <$- <$-         :           ! . &    !    -&    :        ! .-$      #) <$- .-$       -!
                                                                         5                           5
              .-$ 0        .-$ .)' . &               )   -: . ;    -:        )   -:     )    -& <$-     #)
                                6                                  6                             =
                          =
                          21
                          .)      ( 9 $-         ! &9
                           :& #        9 ;8-:; ;         ,
                          =
              0       -!      -! <$-         ) 2)8 .-$        -    .-$   -: 2)8 2#          .)' 2)8 2#         )
              -!      #)      -& 0       . ; 2#          #)   -:   -     .)'      !    -:    :    -:    :)    :
              . & . &         -&   :)        ) . &       -& . ;     )    -! . &        -: . ;       ! 0      <$-
                  )   ! 2)8        -!    #)          )   )    :     ) <$-         )    -:     ) /       -:     )
              -!      ) .)'        :     <$-         !   -    ) .)'      -       . &    ) 2)8 . &           ! . &
                                                 5                               5                            6
              0       :       -!     ) .-$ .-$ .-$ . ;             -     <$- <$- <$- . ;          -         ) .-$
                                       6                                 =                              =
              -: . ;          -!   -     . &     -:      ) . ;     -     #)       )    -!    :    :     0     -
                  ) .)'       #)   -!        ) .)'       )    ! 2#       -! 2#         :      ) <$- 2)8        !
                                                                         2$'

<removed-date>
              :)    -: 2#      #)    )   -    :    -: .)' .)' 2)8         -! 0        -! . ; .-$
              <$-    )    #)   -    2)8 .)' 2#      !   -&     )     )     )     -:     ) 0        !
              . ;   -: .)' 2#       . ; 2)8   -&    ) .-$ .-$ /           2#    2#    -: <$-      :)
                                                           5                              5
<removed-apn>
              . ;   -: /       -:   -:    )   -& <$- .-$ . &        :)    :     .)'   -! .)' 0
                               6                      6                               =
              /      ! .-$     ! .-$     -!   -!   -    .-$   :     -!    :     2)8 0         !   :
                        =
              . ;   -: . ;     #)   );    !   -!   :    );    :     :     .-$     ! 2#     . &     )
              2#     ! .)' <$- . ;        )   -!   -    -!     ) <$- .-$ 2)8          -!   #) <$-
              -:     )    #)   ) <$- <$- .-$ <$- <$- 2#             2)8    ) /        -    2#     <$-
              .-$ . &     :    -: . ;     ) .)' .-$ <$-        !    :     .)'    -:   :    #) .-$
                                                                                      5
                  ! 2)8    !   ) <$- . ; /         :    2)8 . ; .)'       -! . ;      -! .-$ .-$
                          5                        6                          6
              .)'   -     -! .-$ .-$     -:   -:   :    <$-   -     -&    ); . &      -: .-$ .)'
                    =                         =
              <$- 2#      -: <$-     ! .-$ 0        ) .)'      )    -     -: . ; .)'       :)      !
              :     2)8    )   -    -    2)8 . ; 2)8    -! <$-      #) .-$ <$-        :    .)' <$-
              :     -! . ; . ;      :     !   -     ! .-$      ) . ;      -: <$-      ); . ; <$-
              0     #) . ;     -!   -! .-$    :    -! 0       .-$ .)'     :     .)'   -       !    !
              ); /        :    :    . & .-$ <$- .-$     -: . ; .-$         )      !     ! .-$ . ;
                  5                          5                            6
              -! .)' .)'       :    -!   -:   :    . ; 2)8 .-$ .-$ 0              ) .-$ .-$       -!
              6                          =                      =
                                                              2$'

<removed-date>
              :)      !       )   :         ! .-$   -      -& .)'      -:     )    :    . ; . &     -         )
              <$- <$- <$- <$- . ;               !   :      2)8 .)' .)'       :     !     :     )    :     2)8
                  ! . &
<removed-apn>
                         =
                         21
                         .)   ( 9 $-            ! &9
                          :& #        9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                         =
              0     . ;      -! <$-         ) 2)8 .-$ <$- .-$ <$- 2)8 2#                .)' 2)8 2#        #)
              . ; 2)8 /           .-$   -:      ! .)'      -:    :)    :     . &   -:    -!    ) .)' <$-
              #)      ! 2)8       -!        )   )   :        )   -: . ;      -: .-$ 0         :     . ;       )
                  ) 2#       -!   -     . &     #) .)'     -& . ;       )     !    #)     )    )     )        )
              .-$ 0       .-$     -: <$- . ;        -        ) .-$     -: . ;      -!    -    . &   -:        )
                                         5                                5                               6
              . ;   -! 2#         . ; 2)8 .)'          ) 0       . &    -&    )    -!    :    :     <$-       !
                                      6                                =                            =
                  ) .)'      #)   -!        ) .)'      )     ! 2#      -! 2#       :     :    <$- 2)8         !
              :)    -: <$-        #)        )   -   :      -: .)' .)' 2)8          -! 0       -! . ;          )
              <$-     )      #)   -     2)8 .)' 2#           !   -& <$-       )    )      )    )     !        !
              . ;   -: .)' <$-          #) . &      -: 2#        . & 2)8 /         !      ) .-$ /         2#
              2#    -: <$-        :) . ;        -: /       -:    -:     )    -& <$- .-$ . &         :)    :
                                                                       5                            5
              .)'   -! .)' 0            /       ! .-$        !   #)    -! -! -          <$-   :     -!    :
                                                                       2$'  5

<removed-date>
                                  6                             6                                =
              2)8   -! 2#         :    . ;   -: . ;       #)    );   -&      -!       :     );   :     :     .-$
                        =
                  ! 2#    . &     ) 2#       0       .)' <$- . ;         )   -!       -     -!   #) <$- .-$
              /     .-$ 2)8       -!   #) <$-        -:     )   #)       ) <$- <$- .-$ <$- <$- 2#
<removed-apn>
              2)8   #) /          -    2#    <$- .-$ . &        :    -: . ;            ) .)' .-$ <$-          !
              :     .)'      -:   :    #) 2)8         ! .-$     !        ) <$- . ; /             :     2)8 . ;
                                                                                                 5
              .)' . ; . ;         -! .-$ .-$ .)'          -     -! .-$ .-$            -:    -:   :     <$-   -
                       5                                  6                                 6
              .)'   ); . &        -: .-$ .)' <$- 2#             -: <$-        ! .-$ 0             ) .)'       )
                    =                         =
              -     -: . ; .)'         :)        !   :    2)8   ) <$-        -       2)8 . ; 2)8       -! <$-
              #)     ) <$- .)' .)' <$-               :    -! . ; . ;         :         !    -     ! .-$       )
              . ;   -:        !   ); . ; <$- 0            #) . &     -!      -! <$-         :    . ;    ! .-$
              .)'   :     .)'     -     !        !   ); /       :    :       . & .-$ 0           .-$   -:    -!
              .-$    !        ! 2)8 .-$      -!      :    .)'   -:   -!      -:       :    . ; 2)8 .-$ .-$
                    5                                5                                6
              0      ) .-$ .-$         -!    :)       !     )   :    0       .-$       !    -&   :     -:     )
               6                             =                                =
              :     . ; . &       -     ) <$- <$- <$- <$- . ;                 !       :     -:   -     .)'   :
              2#    :         )   :     )        ! . &
                         =
                         21
                         .)   ( 9 $-         ! &9
                                                                     2$'         6

<removed-date>
                         :& #        9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                        =
              0     :    0       . ;   :     :       #)    -     <$-   ); 2#         .)' .)' . ;      ! .)'
              -     -! . ; . & 2)8 .-$                ! .-$ .-$ .-$ .-$ /                  -!   -:    ) <$-
<removed-apn>
              2#    2)8 <$- 2#         -     );      :     2)8   -!    -!    -!       -:   -& 2#     :) 2)8
              -: .)' .-$          ) .)'      );      ); 0        :     -&     )        ! .-$ /        !     )
              -&     )       !   :     .-$       !   -:     ) . ;       !     #)       !   -    :    #) /
                                             5                               5                          6
              . &   #)      -     ) .-$      -        ! . ;      :      -    .)' <$-       #)   -: .-$    #)
                                    6                                  =                           =
              :     <$- <$- 2#         . & /          !    :) . ; 2)8 <$-              )    ! <$- .)' . ;
              /     #) <$-       :     -!    :        ! <$-      -! .)'      -:       -     ) <$-    -&     )
              :) . &        -: . ;      !        !   :)    -! 2)8      );    -!       -    :)   :    -!   :
              -:    :    2)8 2#        #)        ) 2#      . &    )    :)    );       :    :    :     ! . ;
              0      )      -    -!     ) <$- 0             ! 2)8 2)8 2)8             ); .)'     ! 0      2)8
                                                                   5                                5
              -     #) .-$ .-$ .-$           -! .-$        -     ); .-$      :         )   -    -!   -!     !
                            6                                    6                              =
              -:     !      -! . &     -! .-$        -!    :     2)8    ) . & .-$           !    !   #) .)'
                            =
              .-$   );       ) 2)8     -:    );       ) . & .-$ . ;          :         !    ! . &    -! 2#
              -     -!      :    -&     !    -       . ;   :) .-$      :     . &       )   :    :    <$- <$-
              -: . &         )   #)     )        !    !     ) 2)8      :)     ! /          2#   -:   -!   -
                                                                       2$'       =

<removed-date>
               ) <$- .)' /             <$- 2#      -&   :     .-$ .)' 0         :    -&   -       -       );
                                                                                          5
              .-$ .)' . ;        :     . &    )    -!   -:    -!    -!     ) .-$ . ;          ! 2#         !
                       5                                6                         6
              .)'   -:   -       -:     ! .)'      -!   :)     ) .)'      :)    -    :    2#      . & 2#
                    =                              =
<removed-apn>
              2)8 2#     #) /          -!    -&     )     !    !     ) /         ! .)' 2#         2#      2)8
              ); . ; .-$ . ; <$- . ;               :    2#    :     .-$   ); .)'     -&   -: .)'          #)
              -:    :) 2)8        ! <$- . ; .-$         -: 0        .)'   -!     !   ); .-$       #)      -:
              ); 0       /       . & .)'     -     .)' <$-    -     <$-    )     ) 2#     .-$ <$-         :
              2#     !       !    ! 2)8      );    :    );    -: 0        :     :) 2#     ); . ;          #)
                    5                              5                            6
               !     ! . ; .-$ . ;            !    -!   :     . ;   -      !    -:   );   -&      :)      -
              6                              =                            =
               )    -:       )   -     2)8 . ;     -: /       -!     ! . ; .)'        ! . ; . & 2)8
              .-$    !   -&      -: .-$      :     :) . ; 2)8       -!    -:    -!   :)   -       .)'     -&
              );     ! 2)8       -!     ! .-$ .)'         ! 2)8     #)    -!    );   -    /       /       2)8
              ); . ; .-$ 2)8            !    #) <$-       !   :     .-$    )    -: <$-    -!          !   -:
              #) . &     :) .-$        :     2)8   -    <$- . ;     -     . ;   #) .-$ .)'        -!       !
                                              5                            5                              6
               ! .-$     :       .-$   -      ) .)'     #) .)'      -! .-$      -&   -    0       -       -:
                                       6                            =                             =
              .-$ .-$ 2)8 . ;          -!    -     <$- .-$ . ;       ) 2#       -! .-$        !   -: .-$
              . &   #)   -       :     -! 2)8      -:     !   :     2)8    ) <$-      )       ) . & . ;
                                                                    2$'

<removed-date>
              -&    -& <$- 2)8            ) .-$ <$- .)'       :) . &    -:   )    :    .)' <$-       :
              2)8   -!       -!   -!   -!    -! .)' . ; 0          :    :    ) .)'     -: 2#         . ;
              -! .)'         -!     ! 2#      )    #) .-$     -!    )   )    )    )        )    ) <$-
                                                                   5                           5
<removed-apn>
              2#    2#    <$-      )   -&     )    :     )     ! .-$    )    -!   -:   :       . &       !
                                  6                           6                        =
              -!    -:       -    -& . ;      )     ) . ;     -&   -    #)   #)   )        !   -:    :
                             =
              . &   -:       :    :
                         =
                         21
                         .)      ( 9 $-      ! &9
                          :& #        9 ;8-:; ;     ,
                         =
              0     . &      -: .-$    -     -:    -: . ;      !    !   ! . & 2#       2)8 . ; 0
                  ) <$-       !   -! .)'     -& .)' .-$ /           !   :    :)   ! . & 2)8          #)
              2#    . ;       ) 2)8       ! .-$    -: 2#      2#   .-$ . ;   )    ) 0          -     #)
              -:    -:       -! 0      . ;    )    :)    !     )   #) .-$    -:   ! . &         ! 2)8
              0     0        :)   -:   -!     #)   #) <$-     -!   -: . ;    ) .)'         !    )     -
                                             5                        5                              6
                  ) 2)8      -!   #)    #)    !    -:   #)    -: . & 2#      :    :    .)'      :    2#
                                       6                         =                             =
              . ;   #)       -!   #)   :     . ;   :    . &   -!   :    :    :    :    0       #) 0
              . & .)' . ; . ;             ! <$-    -!   -!    -:   -!   -!   -!   :        )   :     -
              #)    -!       -& . & . &      -:     )   #)    :     ) -      :    :    0       :     /
                                                                   2$'

<removed-date>
              :       .-$     :      :    -!   -! . & . & 2#                       ) . & . ;         )    )   :     <$-
              #)      :       -!     !    -!   :       #) . ;          :)      -     /       <$- .)' .-$ .)' .)'
                                                                               5                          5
              -:      -& .-$         #) . ;        ) /             )   -       .-$   -! .)' <$- .)' .)'             -!
<removed-apn>
                                     6                                 6                         =
              :       -        )     -! .)' 0          :       2#          !   -& . ;          ! <$- 2)8      -:    :
                              =
              . ;     :       -      #)   -:   :       .-$     -: 0                ! . ;      -!   -     -    . &   :)
              <$-     -&       )     !    -& .)'       -&      -       -! 2#             !     ) 0       :      ! .-$
              -       <$- . & 2)8 .)' 2)8 . ; 2#                       . ; 0         . ; . ;       -     2#   .-$   :
              -! <$- .-$             )    #) 2)8 0             #) <$- <$- 2)8                  ) 2)8     -! 0       <$-
                                                                                                         5
                  !       )   -:     :)    ) /         -! 0            <$- /             )    -:   :)     )     )   -!
                              5                            6                                       6
              0       <$- . &        )    -:   :)       ! /            <$- . & 2)8 0               -&    -& <$- . &
                       =                               =
              #)          )    ) . ; 2)8           !       )   :       2#      . & . &        -:   -! .-$ 2)8        )
              0       ); . ;         ) /       <$-     -& . &              !   :)    -: . &          !   -: <$-
                          =
                          21
                          .)      ( 9 $-       ! &9
                              :& #       9 ;8-:; ;         ,
                          =
              0       :       .)' . ; /        /       /       /       /       /     -& . ;        :     :    #) 0
              0       0       . &    -!   -! . ; . ;           -: . &          -: 0          . ;   -!     !     ! .-$
                                                                               2$'

<removed-date>
              <$-         !   -:    :)   :     <$- .)'     )        )   -! 0        .-$ . ; <$- .-$           -&
              :           !   -!    -&    !    -! <$- 0         0        ) . & <$-         -&   -! . ; . ;
                  !       )   -&    ! .-$       #)   -!   #) <$- /             :) . & 2)8 .-$         -!          !
                                               5                              5                               6
<removed-apn>
              :)      #)      );    ! . ;       ) 0        !    #) . ;          ! . & 2)8 2)8             )       )
                                      6                            =                                  =
              . & .-$         -!    :) . ;      !    :    .-$   -       2)8    -: . ; .-$       -         ! . &
              -& 2#           .-$   -    . ;    ) .-$      )        )    ) . &       -&    -:   -:    -:      -:
              . ;     #)      :)    #)   #) . &      :    .)'       !   :      :      ) . &     -: <$- <$-
              -!      #)      #)    #) .-$     #) .-$     -!        )   #) .)' /          <$- <$-         ! <$-
              . ;         )   -&    -! . &     -: <$- .)'           ! <$- /         .-$     !     ! .-$       :
                                                                       5                             5
              .-$     -! .-$ <$-         -&    :     -! . &      !      #) <$- .-$         -! .-$         ! <$-
                              6                                 6                              =
              :       -&      -     -: 2#       ! .-$ <$-           )   -&     -     -: .-$ 0         .)'     :
                              =
              <$- .-$         #)    :) 2#      .-$   -! .-$         ! .-$ .)' .)'          -    :) .)'            !
                  ) 2)8        )    -&    ) 2)8      -    . ; /          )      !     ) . ;     #)        !   -&
              0       /       2#    :)   -!    #)    :    2)8   :)       !     :    2#    .-$ /       2#      #)
              .-$ . &         -& .-$     -      !    -! .-$ 2#          -&     -:    :     :    .)' <$- /
                                                                                                 5
              <$-     -       . ; 2#      ) 0         )   -&    -:       !     -&    ); 2)8 .-$           ! 0
                               5                          6                              6
              -& .-$           ! .-$      ! .)' 2)8       -:    -: 2)8 2)8 <$- 2#               .)'       !   #)
                  =                              =
                                                                        2$'

<removed-date>
              -:   -       -: 2)8 2)8 .-$ 2)8 . ; . & 2#                . ;   :)        ! /       -! <$-
              -:   :       :      ! .-$ /          ! .-$    -! .-$      -     /       <$-   -! 2#      -!
              :) .)'       -: 2#      <$- .-$ . &      #)    ! .-$ . ;            ! . ; .-$        ) 0
<removed-apn>
               !   -!       ! .)' 2)8        )   -!    -    -!     ) <$- .-$ <$- . &               ) <$-
              2#   -!       ! /       :      !    !    -: .)' 2)8       -: .-$        -     . ;   :    <$-
                   5                             5                          6
               !   -: <$- <$- . &          -&    -     :    2)8   -!    -     2#      #) <$- <$-       -!
              6                            =                            =
              -&   -!       ) . & /        . &     ) 2)8    -     2#     ! . ; .)' 2#             #)   -!
               )      ! /        :)   :)     )   #)    ! 2#       . ;    )        !   -!    -: <$- 2)8
               )   -:      -& . ;     :    <$- 0       )    -! <$-      :)        !   -:    :     -&   -
              :    . & <$- <$- .-$         :     . ;   -: 2)8 . ; .)' <$-             -! .)' /         -!
              #)      !     )    -&   ); .)' . & .)' 2#           -:     ) .-$        -: 2#       .-$ .-$
                                          5                             5                              6
              .-$ /        -     -:    ) . & .-$ 2#         :     -& .-$          ) 0         !    ! .-$
                                      6                           =                               =
               ! 2#       . &    -:   -:   -!    -:    :) .)' <$-       -!    -!        ) . ;     -:   :
               ! 0          !    -:   ); /       #) .)' 2)8        !    -     .-$     #)      ) .-$    );
              :       !     )    #) . &
                       =
                       21
                       .)      ( 9 $-      ! &9
                          :& #     9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                                                                  2$'

<removed-date>
                          =
              0       .-$ .-$        ) . ;     -! <$- . &        !    -    -!     ) .)'     #) <$- <$-
              2)8      ! . &       #)    ); <$-        !    -    ) . & 2#        :    <$- .-$     :) . &
              -        ! .)' .)' 2)8 . ;            -:      #) 2#     . & .)' /         ! .-$     -!      :)
<removed-apn>
                  ! . ; .)'        :     <$-   #) .-$ . & .-$ . & 2)8 <$- . ;               -: <$- 2#
                  ) 2#     . ; <$-        !     -   . ; .)' .)'       -    . &    !     !    ) .)' <$-
                                               5                           5                       6
              :) .)' 2)8 .-$              :) .-$ . ;        -&   -!    -& 2)8 2)8       )   -         ! . ;
                                         6                            =                           =
                  !   -!      :    2)8 <$- . ;      -: . ;       -    <$- 2)8 <$-      -     ! 2#         2#
              /       -:      -:     ) 2#      .-$ /         )   ) .-$ . &        ) .-$     -     :) . ;
              #)       !      :    .)' .)'       ! <$-      -:   !    :    :     :    <$- <$- <$-          )
              <$- . &         :) .)' .)' .-$ 2)8            -! . & 2)8     :) 2)8      :    .-$   :) . ;
              . ;     -:      );   -     .-$     ! . &      ); <$- . &      ) .)'       )   );     !      :
                                                                    5                             5
                  )   :       :    . ;    )    :    <$- /        -    2#    ! .-$      -: . ;         )    )
                                    6                            6                         =
              -:      -: . &       -     .-$ /      . & <$- .-$        ! .)' .-$       -:   -!        )   -:
                          =
              -       . ; <$-        !   -: . &     -        !   ! . & 2)8 0          2#    -:    -: . &
              -! .)'          #)   -!     )    -!   :        )   ! . ;     -:    :     :) 2#      <$-     #)
              <$- .)' . ; .)' . ;              );   :)      );   :    .-$ 2#      ! 2)8     -!    -:      -!
              . ; .)'         -! /       2)8 .-$    :      . & 2)8 2#       ) 2)8 .)'       -:    :        )
                                                                    2$'

<removed-date>
                                                                                                   5
                  !   -!      -: <$-        ) 2#     2)8   :         )    ! <$- <$- <$- .-$              -:     !
                              5                            6                         6
              . ;      !      -    .)' . ;      );   -&      ! .-$       :) .-$         -!   -:     !    :     :
                      =                              =
              .-$     -:      -&   -! <$-       :      ! 0       /        !    -!       :    .-$   #) <$-      -:
<removed-apn>
              2#      :)      !     ! 2)8 . & . & . & /                  2#    /       . & <$- 0         . ;   -!
              -        ) .-$ 2#         <$- . & .-$        -!    :
                          =
                            6
                          21
                          .) ( 9 $-             ! &9
                            :& #       9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                          =
              0       .-$     -:   -: . &       -! <$- . &           ! . &     -!       :    :     .)'   -     <$-
              2)8      ! . &       #)   ); <$-         !   -         ) . & 2#           :     ! .-$      :)    :
              <$-      ! .)' .)' 2)8 . ;             -:      ) 2#        . & .)' . ;          ! .-$      -! 2#
                  ! . ; .)'        :    <$- 2)8 .-$ . &              ) 2#      2)8       ! . ;     -: <$- 2#
                  ) 2#      . ; /       <$- . ;        )   #)    #) . &            !     !   #) .)'      -      :)
                                            5                                  5                               6
              -& 2)8 .-$            )       !   ! /        -&    #) .)' /               -:   #)     !     -!    !
                                        6                           =                                    =
              #)      :     2)8     !       )   #)   #)    -!    -       <$- 2)8 <$-          !    -     2#    2#
              /       -:      -:    ) 2#        #) /         )       ) .-$ . &           ) .-$     -     :) . ;
              #) 2#           :    .)' .)'      ! <$-      #)    -       :     -: <$- <$- <$- <$-               )
                                                                         2$'

<removed-date>
              <$- . ;       :) .)' .)'           ) 2)8   -! /       .)'   :) 2)8       :    .-$   :) . ;
              . ;     -:    ); . & .-$           ! . &   ); <$-     :         ) .)' <$-     );     !    -&
                                                                    5                             5
                  )   -:    :      . ;    ) . & <$-      :) <$-     :)        ! .-$    -: . ;      )    )
                                    6                        6                             =
<removed-apn>
              -:      -: . &       -     .-$ /     . & <$- .-$ <$- .)' .-$             #) . &     -!    -:
                          =
              <$-     :     <$-     !    -: . &     -     !     ! /       2)8 0        2#   -:    -:    -&
              -! .)'        #)     -&     )   -!    :    #)     ! . ;     -:      :    :) 2#      <$-   #)
              -       -& . ; .)' . ;          );    :)   ); .)' .-$       :)      ! 2)8     -!    -:    -!
              . ; .)' . ; /              2)8 .-$    :    . & 2)8 2#       -: 2)8 .)'        -:    -&    )
                                                                                            5
                  !   :     -: <$- . & 2#          2)8   :      )     ! <$- <$- <$- .-$           -:    !
                            5                            6                       6
              . ;      ! <$-       -& . ;     );    -&    ! .-$     :) <$- . ;         -:     !   :     :
                      =                             =
              #)      -:       !   -! <$- . &        !    !   :)      !   :       -& .-$    #)    -     -:
              2#      :) 2#         ! 2)8 . & . & . ; /             2#    /       :     ! 0       -!    -!
                  ! . &     :      2#    <$- /       )   -    -! . ;          )   -&    )   :      )    )
              2)8 <$-          !    !    #) 2)8
                          =5
                          21
                          .)    ( 9 $-        ! &9
                            :& #        9 ;8-:; ;    ,
                          =5
              0       .-$   -:      )    -!   -! <$- . &        !   -   -!        )    :    #) <$- <$-
                                                                    2$'   5

<removed-date>
              2)8    ! . &     #)     ); <$-       !   -    ) . & 2#       :      ! .-$     :) . &
               !     ! .)' .)' 2)8 . ;            -:   #) 2#     . & .)' /        ! .-$     -! 2#
               ! . ; .)'       :      <$- 2)8 .-$ . & .-$ . & 2)8 <$- . &              -: <$- 2#
<removed-apn>
               ) 2#       . ; <$-     -      -    . ; .)'   -&   #) . &      !    !     ) .)' <$-
                                            5                       5                         6
              :) .)' 2)8 .-$ . ; .-$              -:   #)   ) 2)8      )   -     #) . ;         !   -&
                             6                                =                             =
              . & 2)8 <$- . ;         -:    -!    -    <$- 2)8 <$-    -    <$- 2#      2#   /       -:
              -:     ) 2#      .-$ /         )     ) .-$ . &      ) .-$    -     :) . ;     #)       !
              :     .)' .)'       ! <$-     -:     !   :    -: .-$ <$- <$- <$-          ) <$- . &
              :) .)' .)' .-$ 2)8            -! . & .)'      :) 2)8    :    .-$   :) . ; . ;         -:
              ); .-$ <$-          !   :     ); <$- . &      )     )    )   );     ! .)'      )      :
                                                                 5                          5
              :     . ;    )   :      <$- .)'     -    2#    ! .-$    -: . ;      )     )   -:      -:
                               6                            6                          =
              . &   -     <$- /       . & <$- .-$ <$- .)' .-$ <$-          -!     ) .)'     -       . ;
                           =
              <$-    !    -: . &      -      !     ! . & 2)8 0        2#   -:    -:    #)   -! .)'
              #)    -!     )   -!     :     .)'    ! . ;    -:   :    :) 2#      <$-   #) <$- .)'
              . ; .)' . ;      );     :)    ); .)' .-$ 2#         ! 2)8    -!    -:    -! . ; .)'
              -! /        2)8 .-$     :      ) 2)8 2#       -: 2)8 .)'       )   :      )       !   -!
                                                                                       5
              -:     !     ) 2#       2)8   :      )    ! <$- <$- <$- .-$        -:     ! . ;        !
                                                               2$'   6

<removed-date>
                           5                            6                          6
              -       -& . ;      );   -&    !    :     :) .-$     -!    -:    !   :     :    .-$   -:
                      =                           =
              -&      -! <$-      :     !    !    :)     !   -!    -& .-$     #)   -     -: 2#      :)
                  !   ! 2)8 . & . & . & /               2#   /     #) <$- 0        . ;   -!   -     .-$
<removed-apn>
              .-$ 2#       <$- . & .-$       -!   :     -&
                       =6
                       21
                       .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
                           :& #       9 ;8-:; ;     ,
                       =6
              0       -:   -:     !    -! 2)8     :      ) .)'      !    !     !    ! 2)8      !      !
                  ! .-$ <$-       )    -:    ! .)' 2)8 <$-         -& .-$     -& .-$     -&    ) . ;
              :       )    :      )    #) <$-       ) 2)8    -: <$-      ! .-$     -:    -    <$- 0
              -: . ;        ! <$-       !    #) <$-      !   -    .-$    ! .-$ <$-       :) 2#        !
              -: .)'        ! <$- 2)8 .)'         -: .)'     -: .-$ .-$       -! .-$ .-$      #) .)'
                                      5                             5                            6
              :       -& .)'      -     #)   -!   #)    -!       ) 2)8   :)   -&   -!    !     -&   -:
                                       6                           =                          =
              -& .)'        ) . ; <$-        :)     ) . ;        ! . &   #)   -& .)' 2)8      :)    :)
              :
                       ==
                       21
                       .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
                           :& #       9 ;8-:; ;     ,
                                                                   2$'    =

<removed-date>
                      ==
              0     -:   -:     !    -! 2)8     :     ) .)'    !     !    !    ! 2)8      !      !
                  ! .-$ <$-     )    -:     ! .)' 2)8 <$-     -& .-$      -& .-$    -&    ) . ;
              :      )   :      )    #) <$-       ) 2)8   -: <$-     ! .-$     -:   -    <$- 0
<removed-apn>
              -: . ;       ! <$-       !   #) <$-     !   -   .-$    ! .-$ <$-      :) 2#        !
              -: .)'       ! <$- 2)8 .)'        -: .)'    -: .-$ .-$      -! .-$    #) .)'      :
                                     5                           5                             6
              -& .)'     -      #)    -!   #)   -!    ) 2)8    :)   -&    -!   !    -&    -:   -&
                                     6                        =                          =
              .)'    ) . ; <$-       :)     ) . ;     ! . &   #)    -& .)' 2)8      :)   :)    :
                      21
                      .)     ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #    9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              0     -:   -:     !    -! 2)8     :     ) .)'    !     !    !    ! 2)8      !      !
                  ! .-$ <$-     ) . ;      :      )   :   )   #) <$-      ) 2)8     -: <$-       !
              .-$   -:   -     <$- 0       -: . ;     ! <$-    !    #) <$-     !    -    .-$     !
              .-$ <$-    :) 2#         !   -: .)'     ! <$- 2)8 .)'       -: .)'    -: .-$ .-$
              -! .-$ .-$        #) .)'      :   -& .)'    -   #)     -!   #)   -!   ) 2)8       :)
                                           5                        5                          6
              -&    -!     !    -&    -:   -& .)'     ) . ; <$-     :)    ) . ;     ! . &      #)
                                     6                      =                         =
              -& .)' 2)8        :)   :)    :
                                                              2$'

<removed-date>
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-       ! &9
                         :& #    9 ;8-:; ;       ,
              0     -:   -:     !    -! 2)8    :     ) .)'      !     !    !    ! 2)8     !     !
<removed-apn>
                  ! .-$ <$-     ) . ;     :      )   :    )    #) <$-      ) 2)8    -: <$-      !
              .-$   -:   -    <$- 0       -: . ;     ! <$-      !    #) <$-     !   -    .-$    !
              .-$ <$-    :) 2#        !   -: .)'     ! <$- 2)8 .)'         -: .)'   -: .-$ .-$
              -! .-$     #) .)'      :     -& .)'    -    #)   -!     #)   -!   ) 2)8    :)     -&
                                          5                          5                         6
              -!     !   -&     -:    -& .)'     ) . ; <$-      :)    ) . ;     ! . &     #)   -&
                                     6                         =                         =
              .)' 2)8    :)     :)   :
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-       ! &9
                         :& #    9 ;8-:; ;       ,
              -!     ) 2)8      :)   -&   -!     !   -&   -:   -& .)'      ) . ; <$-     :)     )
              . ;    ! . &      #)   -&
                        6
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-       ! &9
                         :& #    9 ;8-:; ;       ,
              0     -    2)8 .-$ <$- <$-         !   !    !     !     !    ! <$-    -!   -& .-$
                                                               2$'

<removed-date>
              .-$ .-$        !    -:     -! 2)8     -&   !    :     :)   -     ! . ; .-$       -      !
              2#      !    :)     -:     -    <$-    !   #)    !     !   :)    :    .)'   !    :     -
              -& <$- .)'          :      .-$ .-$    -    #)    )    :)   -!    :     ) . ;     -: <$-
<removed-apn>
              :)      #)   -:        !    )    #) .)' . &     -&    -!    #)   :)   -!    #)    !     :
                                              5                          5                           6
              /       -!   :     2)8 2)8      -&
                                     6
                       21
                       .)      ( 9 $-         ! &9
                           :& #       9 ;8-:; ;      ,
              . ;     -: <$-      :)     #)   -:     !   )    #) .)' . &       -&   -!    #)   :)    -!
              #)      !    :     /       -!
                        5
                       21
                       .)      ( 9 $-         ! &9
                           :& #       9 ;8-:; ;      ,
              0       -! /           )   #) 2#       !   )    -:     ! <$-     ! .-$      #)    !     !
                  )   -& <$-         ) 2)8 2#       :    -    2)8   -    -!    -!    !    -! . ; .)'
              <$- 2#       <$- . &       :    . &   #)   )    -     #)   ); <$-     -!    -:   #) <$-
              -:      #)     !       !    ) . ;     -    #) .)'      ! . ;     !    -:    :    .)'   -
                  ! . ; 2)8 .)'          -:   -     :) .)'    :     . & -:     #) . ;     -    :)    :
                                                                     2$'

<removed-date>
                                             5                             5                              6
              . ;     :     -!     )     #) <$-      -& <$- /         :) .)' 0        :     -&        )   :
                                        6                            =                            =
              <$-     -!     ! . ; 2)8 .-$           #) <$- .-$      -:    -     -    <$-   #) . ; <$-
              -       .-$   #)     !     !       ! .-$    !    -: <$- 2#         :    2#    .-$   -: /
<removed-apn>
              -!      #)    -: .)'       !       )   -: .-$ .-$ . ;        #)    -& .-$      !        ! .)'
              . & . ;       -& <$-      :)   -& 2)8       ! .)' . ; .)' . ; . ; .-$               -&      :)
                  ) /        !     -:   -: . &       ); .-$ .)' . &        :
                                                                 5
                            5
                          21
                          .) ( 9 $-          ! &9
                            :& #    9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              0       -! /         )    #) 2#        !    )    -:     ! <$-       ! .-$     #)        !       !
                  )   -& <$-       ) 2)8 2#          :    -    2)8   -     -!    -!    !    -! . ; .)'
              <$- 2#        <$- . &     :    . &     #)   )    -     #)    ); <$-     -!    -:    #) <$-
              -:      #)     !     !     ) . ;       -    #) .)'      ! . ;       !   -:    :     .)'     -
                  ! . ; 2)8 .)'         -:    -      :) .)'    :     . &    -:   #) . ;     -     :)       :
                                             5                             5                              6
              . ;     :     -!     )     #) <$-      -& <$- /         :) .)'     #) .-$ . ;        #)     -&
                                        6                            =                            =
              .-$       !    ! .)' . & . ;           -& <$-    :)    -& 2)8       ! .)' . ; .)' . ;
              . ; .-$       -&     :)    ) /         !    -:   -: . &      ); .-$ .)' . &         :
                                                                     2$'

<removed-date>
                            5
                          21
                          .)    ( 9 $-       ! &9
                            :& #    9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                            5
              . ;     -& <$-       :)   -& 2)8      ! .)' . ; .)' . ; . ; .-$               -&   :)     )
<removed-apn>
              /        !    -:     -: . &
                            6
                            5
                          21
                          .) ( 9 $-          ! &9
                            :& #    9 ;8-:; ;       ,
                            6
              0       -&       )   -:   #) /       ); .)' <$-          !   -:     !   :      !    !     )
              <$-     -: <$-       );   -:   -& . ;     -: . &     -!      -! 0       -:    -:   -     #)
              -&      #) 2)8       :)   :    <$-    )   -     )    -:      #)   #) <$-      -     !    #)
              :       2)8   -&     :) 2)8    -:     )   -!   -         !   );   -& /        . & . ;    :
              . &     -     -:     -: . ;     -! . ; . ;     :     . &      -   -:     ) . ;     -! . ;
                                             5                             5                        6
              /        !       )   !     :   -! 2#       )   -!        !   -!   -&     )    -:    :)   :)
                                        6                          =                             =
              <$-     :     :) 2)8 .)'       -:     )   :    2)8   -! . ; .-$ . & 2#             :)     !
              :)       ! .)' .-$ .)' <$-           :    -! . &     :       0    -! 0        . ; <$- 0
                  ) <$- .-$        #)   -    <$-   -    <$- . ;    -       :    -     #)    -:   -:     !
                  !    !       ! <$-    :)   :)    );    )   :     . & .)'      :     .-$   :    .-$   :
                                                                   2$'

<removed-date>
              2)8 <$-      #) .)'      -: .-$     -: .-$      -:   -: .)'        -& .)'    -:   -& . &
                                                                   5                            5
              :       -! .)' 2)8 2)8 2)8 <$- 2)8 . & 2)8 . ;                     :)   -! 2)8    -    .)'
                              6                   6                                       =
              :       -:   -& .)' . ;         !   :)     )    -:       ! . &     -& .)' .)'     -
                           =
<removed-apn>
                           =
                       21
                       .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
                           :& #    9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                           =
              . & 2)8 . ;         :)   -! 2)8     -     .)'   :    -:      -& .)' . ;      !    :)    )
              -:      ! . &       -& .)'
                        6
                       21
                       .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
                           :& #    9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              0       -!   -&     -:   :     -:     ! .-$ <$-          !   -      ! .-$    -    -     !
                  !   -&   -:     #)    ! .-$     -&     )    -    :       -: . & /        ! <$-     :
              <$-     :) . ;      :)   -&    -! . ;     -:    ) <$-         !     !   #)   :    . ; .-$
              -! .-$       :    . &    -     #)   ); 2#       :    . ;     -:    :    0    -    -: 2#
                  !   #)   -! . ;      :      :   :     ); . &         !    -:    ) . & .-$     :    . ;
                                             5                             5                         6
              2)8 .)'      -: 0         :)   -&   :     :     -:       )   -& . &     :    )     :   2)8
                                       6                           =                            =
                  !   -& <$-      :)   :) .)' 0         :     -& . &       :     -    -!   ! . & .-$
                                                                   2$'

<removed-date>
              .-$   #)    -       )    -: 2#        ! 2#     .-$   -!    -    <$-     )   -    2#   <$-
                  ! .-$ <$-       -: <$-     :) 2#      -    .-$   -:    -& . ;      -: <$- .)'     -&
                  ) .)' .-$       ) . ;      :     -&   #)    !     ! 2)8 . & . ;         -&    !   :)
<removed-apn>
              -& 2)8          !   :    . ; .)'     -! . ; . ;      -&    :)     ) /       !    -&   -:
                                                                   5                           5
              . &   -&        ! .)' .)' . &
                                 6
                         21
                         .)   ( 9 $-         ! &9
                         :& #         9 ;8-:; ;     ,
              . ;   -&        !   :)   -& 2)8       !   :    . ; .)'     -! . ; . ;       -&   :)    )
              /      !    -&      -: . &
                         21
                         .)   ( 9 $-         ! &9
                         :& #         9 ;8-:; ;     ,
              0     :     );      :    .-$    ! 2#      #) .-$ .-$       -      !    -& .-$    -&    !
              2)8   -     #)      -! .-$     -&     ) 2#     -:     !        ! . ; 2)8    :     !   :
              :)     !        ! . ;    -:    -      ! 2#     -     :)    -: <$-      -    !    #) .-$
                  ! 2#        ! .)' <$-      :     2#   ) .)'       ) .-$ . ; .-$ 2)8 .-$           :)
              -&    -&    -:      -& . &      -&    !   :) . &     -!        ! . &    !   -: .)' .)'
                                             5                           5                       6
                                                                   2$'

<removed-date>
              -!      -!   :) . ; <$-            ! . ;     :     .)' .)'    -: .)' . ; 2)8              -! 0
                                  6                                  =                                 =
              -:      -:   :    2)8 .)' .)'        :       . & 2)8    -&    -!      -:        !   :) . &     -!
                  !   -&   :    . ;    :     0     .-$     -! .-$     :)        )   -!    -       -: 0       :
<removed-apn>
              -:      -! .)' .)' .)'         -:    :       -: /       . ;   -:        !   :)      -&   -:      !
                  )   #) .-$      #)   :     . ;   #)      :) . ; .-$           ! /       0       -& .-$       !
              2)8 2)8 .)'
                          21
                          .)   ( 9 $-        ! &9
                           :& #       9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              0       :    );     :    .-$       ! 2#      #) .-$ .-$       -         !   -& .-$       -&      !
              2)8     -    #)     -! .-$     -&        ) 2#      -:    !        ! . ; 2)8         :      !   :
              :)      !        ! . ;   -:    -         ! 2#      -    :)    -: <$-        -       !    #) .-$
                  ! 2#         ! .)' <$-     :     2#       ) .)'      ) .-$ . ; .-$ 2)8 .-$                 :)
              -&      -&   -:     -& . &      -&       !   :) . &     -!        ! . &         !   -: .)' .)'
                                             5                              5                            6
              -!      -!   :) . ; <$-            ! . ;     :     .)' .)'    -: .)' . ; 2)8              -! 0
                                  6                                  =                                 =
              -:      -:   :    2)8    -& .)' .)'          :     . & 2)8    -&      -!    -:      !    :) . &
              -!      !    -&     :    . ;   :     0       .-$   -! .-$     :)        )   -!      -    -: 0
              :       -:   -! .)' .)' .)'          -:      :     -: /    . ; -:               !   :)   -&    -:
                                                                     2$'    5

<removed-date>
               !    )    #) .-$      #)    :    . ;   #)   :) . ; .-$            ! /    0    -& .-$
               ! 2)8 2)8 .)'
<removed-apn>
                     21
                     .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;     ,
              . &   -&    !     :) . &     -!     ! . &    !   -: .)' .)'          -!   -!   :) . ;
              <$-   ! . ;       :    .)'
                     21
                     .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;     ,
              -!    -:    !     :) . &     -!     !   -&   :   . ;   :       0    .-$   -! .-$   :)
               )    -!   -      -: 0       :
                     21
                     .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;     ,
              . ;   -:    !     :)   -&    -:     !   )    #) .-$    #)      :    . ;   #)   :) . ;
              .-$   ! /       0      -&
                         5
                     21
                                                               2$'       6

<removed-date>
                          .)    ( 9 $-          ! &9
                            :& #        9 ;8-:; ;         ,
                            5
              0       2)8   -:     -: 2)8       -: <$-          !   -& .-$       ! 2)8 .-$         #)   -    2#
                  !    ! 2#            !    !       ) .-$ <$-       :)     !    -: 2)8        -:   :    -& .-$
<removed-apn>
                  !   ); 0         /       :    <$- 2)8 .-$          )     ! 0          <$-   )     !   -:   -!
              . ; .-$ /            2#      -&   :       2)8 /       . &    )     ) . & . & .-$ . & <$-
              #)      );    ); .)' <$-              ! /       -: . &      :)     #)      ); 2)8 2)8     -! 2#
                                                5                               5                          6
                  !   -: 2)8       -:       -! . ; 2)8 . &          -:     #)    !       -    -    -& . & <$-
                                           6                              =                           =
              . &     :        ) /         -:   -:      -     :) <$-      :     .)' <$-       -&   -!   -: . &
              -!       )    :)     -&      -&       )   :     -:    #)    :)     ! .)' <$- .)'          -& 2)8
              2)8 2)8 .)' 2)8 2#                    ! . ; 0         -:    -!    -:       #)   :    . & .)'   -
              -       #) .-$       -!      -:   -       -       !    ! 2#       :       .-$ <$- <$- 2)8      -:
              #)       !       !       ! 2#     .)'     :     .)'   );    -& . &         -!   :     !   -:    !
                                                                          5                             5
              . ; .-$       -: . ;         -!   :)      -! . ;      -! . &       !       :)   -!   -:   ! . &
                                6                                   6                              =
                  ! . ; . ;        :        ) 0         :)    -! . ;      -      ) .)'        -:    !   -&   -:
                         =
              #)      :)    -& . ; <$-          -:        )     ! . &     -     -: . ; <$-         -&   !    -!
              :       2)8
                            6
                                                                          2$'       =

<removed-date>
                         66
                        21
                        .) ( 9 $-             ! &9
                            :& #       9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                            6
              0       2)8   -:     -: 2)8     -: <$-         !   -& .-$      ! 2)8 .-$       #)    -    2#
<removed-apn>
                  !    ! 2#          !    !       ) .-$ <$-      :)    !    -: 2)8      -:   :     -& .-$
                  !   ); 0       /       :    <$- 2)8 .-$         )    ! 0        <$-    )     !   -:   -!
              . ; .-$ /          2#      -&   :    2)8 /         . &   )     ) . & . & .-$ . & <$-
              #)      );    ); .)' <$-            ! /       -: . &     :)    #)   ); 2)8 2)8       -! 2#
                                              5                             5                         6
                  !   -: 2)8       -:     -! . ; 2)8 . &         -! 2)8 2)8 2)8 .)' 2)8 2#               !
                                         6                          =                   =
              . ; 0         -:     -!    -:   #)    :       . & .)'    -    -     #) .-$     -!    -:   -
              -        !     ! 2#        :    .-$ <$- <$- 2)8          -:   #)     !     !     ! 2#     .)'
              :       .)'   );     -& . &     -!    :        !   -:    ! . ; .-$        -: . ;     -!   :)
              -! . ;        -! . &        !   :)    -!      -:    ! . &      ! . ; . ;       :     ) 0
              :)      -! . ;       -      ) .)'     -:       !   -&    -:   #)    :)    -& . ; <$-      -:
                                                                       5                        5
                  )    ! . &       -     -: . ; <$-         -&    !    -!   :     2)8
                                   6                             6
                            =
                        21
                        .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
                            :& #       9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                            =
              -! . &         !     :)    -!   -:        ! . &     ! . ; . ;       :      ) 0       :)   -!
                                                                     2$' 5

<removed-date>
              . ;   -        ) .)'     -:
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-          ! &9
<removed-apn>
                        :& #       9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              .)' 2)8 .)' .)'              ) 2)8 .-$    -& . ;    -:    :   <$-   :)   -    . & 0
              2)8   -: .)'     -:
                         6
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-          ! &9
                        :& #       9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              2#    ); <$-         ! <$- <$- <$-        -:   -: <$-      ! .-$    :    :)    )      !
               ! <$-     #) <$- .-$ 2#             -    -    2#   ); <$- .)'      )    :    .)'     )
              .)'   !        ! /           ) . ;   :) 0      . & 0      #) 2)8 .)' .)' 2)8        -:
              2)8   #) .)'     :       /     :)    -& 2)8    :) .-$ 2)8 2)8 .)' . ; 2#            .-$
              .-$   :) .)'         )
                        =
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-          ! &9
                        :& #       9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              :) 2)8     :) . ; <$- 2)8 . ;             :) .-$
                                                                  2$'   5

<removed-date>
                        6
                        21
                        .)    ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #     9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              . ;   :)    :   . ; . ; . ; . ;          :
<removed-apn>
                        21
                        .)    ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #     9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              /     /    /    /     /
                        21
                        .)    ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #     9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              /     /    /    /     /       /
                        6
                        21
                        .)    ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #     9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              );        ) /   2)8   -& 2#       -!     :
                          5
                        21
                        .)    ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #     9 ;8-:; ;        ,
                          5
              .)'   :)    -   .)'       )
                                                           2$'   5

<removed-date>
                         6
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-   ! &9
                        :& #    9 ;8-:; ;    ,
                         6
<removed-apn>
              2#    /   /      #)
                          =
                         5
                        21
                        .) ( 9 $-     ! &9
                        :& #    9 ;8-:; ;    ,
                         =
              );    -! .-$ .-$ .-$ .)'      -! .-$   :    :     .)'   -!   :   :   .-$ .)'
              .-$
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-   ! &9
                        :& #    9 ;8-:; ;    ,
                        0     . 1
                        > ? > ?
                         # $+ &8 $9 ,    &   #       ;8    8&    9$& @     $&: $+ &8 $9 ,
                        0     . 1
                        > ? > ?
                         # $+ &8 $9 ,    &   #   ;8       8& 9$& @          # )    ! 8)   -
              :) B$$ B$$ B$$
                        21
                        .)   ( 9 $-   ! &9
                        :& #    9 ;8-:; ;    ,
                                                          2$'    5

<removed-date>
                     0     . 1
                     > ? > ?
                      # $+ &8 $9 ,           &   #         ;8    8&   9$& @     $&: $+ &8 $9 ,
                     0     . 1
                     > ? > ?
                      # $+ &8 $9 ,           &   #       ;8     8&    9$& @         # )   ! 8)     -
<removed-apn>
                     0     . 1
                     > ? > ?
                      # $+ &8 $9 ,           &   #         ;8    8&   9$& @     $&: $+ &8 $9 ,
                     0     . 1
                     > ? > ?
                      # $+ &8 $9 ,   & #   ;8    8& +$: @ ;)                          &   8) $@ &   !9#
                      #$    # ) 8& 8) A8 $+ &8 $9 , $) ;)   &                             # $+ &8 $9 ,
                      & #    ;8    8& 9$& @ $&: $+ &8 $9 ,
                     + 9 ( $ !)
                     > ? > ?
                     B$$ 9$& @ $&: &$ !)$--: 899!)) &' $+ &8 $9 ,
                     0     . 1
                     > ? > ?
                      # $+ &8 $9 ,           &   #       ;8     8&    9$& @         # )   ! 8)     -
              :) B$$ B$$ B$$ B$$ B$$ B$$ B$$ B$$ B$$ B$$ B$$                    :) B$$ B$$ B$$
                     3 .
                     .) ( 9 $-           ! &9
                        :& #    9 ;8-:&!9- 8         ,
              '$   $9$$'' $ '$9'$ '$ 9$$'
                     5
                     21
                     .)     ( 9 $-       ! &9
                        :& #    9 ;8-:; ;        ,
              -:   -: .-$      #)   :    :   :       .-$   -:   -:    #) .-$    :    .-$ .-$   :
              #)   -:   :   .-$     -:   :   .-$     -:    #)   :     #)   -:   -:   -:   :    :
                                                                2$'   5

<removed-date>
              #)    -: .-$     -:   :     #)    -:    -: .-$     -: .-$ .-$        -:   :     :     #)
              -:    -:   :     -:   :     #)    #)    :    .-$   -:    #)    -: .-$ .-$       -: .-$
              #) .-$     #)    :    :      #)   -:    :    .-$ .-$      -:   -:    :    #)    #)     :
                                          5                            5                            6
<removed-apn>
              #)    -:   -:    #)    #) .-$     :     #)   :     .-$   #)    #)    :    .-$    :    #)
                                    6                            =                            =
              -:    -:   :     #) .-$     :     .-$   :    :     .-$   #)    -: .-$ .-$       :     #)
              -:    -:   -:    #)   -: .-$ .-$        -:   :     .-$   -: .-$      -:   :     :     .-$
              #)    -:   -: .-$ .-$ .-$         -: .-$     -:    :     :     #)    #)   -: .-$      -:
              #)    -:   -: .-$     #)    #)    -:    -: .-$     :     #)    #) .-$     #)    #) .-$
              :     #)   :     :    #)    #) .-$      :    .-$ .-$     #)    -:    -:   #)    -:    :
                                                                5                             5
              #)    #)   :     #) .-$     -:    :     #) .-$     :     .-$ .-$     :    :     .-$   -:
                               6                          6                             =
              .-$ .-$    -:    #)   #)    :     .-$   -:   -:    -:    -:    :    .-$ .-$     -:    -:
                         =
              :     :    .-$   :    .-$   #)    #) .-$ .-$       :     #)    -:    #) .-$     -: .-$
              :     .-$ .-$    -:   #)    :     .-$   #)   :     :     .-$   -:    :    .-$   :     .-$
              -:    :    :     #) .-$     :     .-$   #)   -:    -: .-$      :     :    #)    :     :
              #)    :    .-$   -:   #)    :     #)    -: .-$     :     .-$   #)    :    #)    -: .-$
                                                                                        5
              .-$   -: .-$     :    #)    :     #)    -:   :     .-$   -:    #)    :    #) .-$      #)
                        5                             6                            6
              #)    #)   :     #)   -:    #)    -:    :    .-$ .-$     -:    -:    -:   -:    -:    -:
                    =                           =
                                                                 2$'    5

<removed-date>
              -:    #)    #) .-$      :     -: .-$      :    -:    -:    -: .-$      -:    -:    -:    -:
              #)    #)    #)    #)    -: .-$      :     #) .-$     :     #)    -:    -:    -:    -:    :
              :     .-$ .-$     -:    -:    -: .-$      :    :     .-$   :     -:    -:    #)    :     .-$
<removed-apn>
              :     :     -:    #)    :     #)    :     :    #)    :     .-$   -:    -:    #)    -:    -:
              .-$   -:    -:    :     -:    -:    #)    #)   :     .-$   -:    -:    :     -:    -:    :
                    5                             5                            6
              -:    -:    #)    -:    -:    :     #)    :    #) .-$      -:    :     -:    -:    #)    -:
              6                             =                            =
              -:    :     -:    -: .-$      #)    :     -:   -: .-$      :     .-$   #)    :     -: .-$
              -:    :     #)    :     .-$   :     #)    :    .-$   -:    #)    :     #)    :     :     .-$
              -:    :     .-$ .-$     #)    :     .-$   #)   -:    #)    :     #)    -:    :     .-$   #)
              :     #)    :     :     .-$   -:    -:    -:   -: .-$      -: .-$ .-$        -:    -:    #)
              :     .-$   :     :     .-$   #)    -: .-$     :     :     #)    -:    :     .-$   -:    #)
                                            5                            5                             6
              -:    :     :     .-$   -:    :     #)    :    .-$ .-$     -:    #)    -:    #) .-$ .-$
                                      6                           =                            =
              -:    #)    #) .-$      :     .-$   #)    -:   :     .-$   :     #)    -:    -:    #) .-$
              :     :     .-$   -:    :     .-$   -: .-$ .-$       -:    #)    :     .-$   -:    -:    :
              .-$   :     :     #)    :     :     :     :    :     .-$ .-$ .-$ .-$         -: .-$      #)
              -:    -: .-$      #)    #)    #) .-$      #)   -: .-$      :     .-$   :     .-$   #)    :
              :     .-$ .-$ .-$       :     #)    -:    -:   :     #)    #)    :     #)    -:    -: .-$
                                                                   5                             5
                                                                   2$'    5

<removed-date>
              -:    #)    :      :    :     .-$   -:    -:   #)   :     -:    :     #)   #)    :     .-$
                                 6                           6                           =
              -:    #)    -:     -:   :     .-$   -:    #)   -:   -:    -:    #)    :    #)    -:    -:
                          =
              .-$ .-$ .-$        :    #)    :     #)    #) .-$    :     #)    :     #)   :     #)    :
<removed-apn>
              .-$   :     .-$ .-$     #)    :     .-$   -:   :    .-$   -:    :     -:   #)    -:    -:
              .-$   -:    -:     :    #)    -: .-$ .-$       -: .-$     #)    -: .-$     #)    -:    :
              .-$ .-$     :      #)   #) .-$      #)    #) .-$    :     #)    -:    :    :     .-$   -:
                                                                                         5
              :     .-$   -:     #)   -:    -: .-$      -:   #) .-$ .-$       -:    :    .-$   :     :
                          5                             6                           6
              :     #)    :      #)   :     .-$   :     -:   #) .-$     :      -:   -:   #)    -:    :
                    =                             =                           5
               #)   -:    -:     -: .-$      :    .-$ .-$ .-$     -:     #)   #)    -:   -: .-$ .-$
              5                             5                           5                       5
              .-$   #)    :     .-$ .-$ .-$       -:    :    #) .-$     -:    :
                                    5                           5
                         21
                         .)   ( 9 $-        ! &9
                          :& #       9 ;8-:; ;     ,
              -:     )    -& <$-      -&     !    -&    -&   )    -: 2)8      -!    !    -!    :     2)8
              -: .-$          ) <$-   :     -      )    :    :    .-$    )    -:    :)    ) 2#       #)
              -:    :)    #) 0        . &   ); <$-      :    -&    ) /        -:    :     )     !    -!
              );    -     -:     !    -     #) 2)8      :) . &    -: .-$       )    )    :) . &      -&
              :     2#    .)'    -:   :     .-$   #)    !    #) <$- . ; :           )     )     )    #)
                                                                 2$' 55

<removed-date>
                                               5                                  5                              6
              .-$   :) 0         . ;       !       !   )      !   #)          )   -! . ;           ) .-$ <$-     :)
                                       6                                  =                              =
              2#    :    .-$ .)'       -:      -:      :) . ;     -: .)'          -: 2#          . ;   :)   );   -:
              -&    -:   #)       #) <$-       #) <$-         )       )   -:      -:        -:   -:    )    -:   -:
<removed-apn>
              -:    -:       )     )   -:      -:      -:     ) . ;       -       -!         !   #)    -&    ) 2)8
              .-$   -    0         ) .-$           ) 2)8    -:    -!      :       <$-       #) 0       #)   :        )
              .-$   )        )     ) <$-           )   :) 0       /       );      :)        -&   -&    :     )   -:
                                                                          5                                 5
              #)    ) 2)8         :    .)'     );      -    :) . ;        #)          )     :      ! .-$     )   -:
                                  6                             6                                     =
              <$- 2)8    -: .)' 2#                 )   -:     )   -:          )   -: . &           )   :)    )       !
                         =
              #)    -        )     ) <$-       -! .-$       -! . ; . ; .-$                  #)   :)    :)   :    -&
              -&    );       )    :    /       2)8     !    #)    :)      -: .-$            -:   #)    :     !   -!
              -     :    .-$       )
                        5 =
                        3 .
                        .) ( 9 $-              ! &9
                         :& #         9 ;8-:&!9- 8          ,
              ''$ 999$''         '9$'9 '9$ ''$$ 9 ''9 99 ''99 9'                            '$$'999$' 9'$'$9$9 '
              $'99 '$99      ' $99' ' 9             ''9''9 9      ' ' 99$'9' '9$'9 $9 $ 9 '' 99 ''
              $ 9$'$9$'9 9999 ''9$$ '''99 ''$$                        ''$ 9''9             $9$ 9 $9 $ 9$'9''9 99         6
              $99$$9 $9$ $9999$'99                 '$$' 99$'$ ' '$99$ 9$ '9' ''$9$9 9$'9$$'$$9
              9$'   9 999        '$$'9 '$' 9$'9' '$9$ '99'99'$ $ 99'99' ' $ 9 $9 ' '99
              $'$'$'''9$ $'$$9''9'9 9                  9'$9$ 9        ''''99$'' '9$9$$ ''                  9$99' ' 9$
                                                                          2$'         56

<removed-date>
              9 '' ''$' '$''$ 9 '' '''$''9''$ $'9''$''9' '9''$ 9 '$                          $   9$'$ '
              $999$'$'99 99$'9$'99         '$'9'99 9       ' '''9'$9$ '$' '$9$$              $99 '99''    6
              '99$'99$'$ '9$ 9$'9$' 9 $99 '$$9              '' $ 9$'9 $'$$'999'' 9$$''99999
              $$$9 '9 '$       9 $9'99'9 9$'9 9 9 ' 9$' 9 ''9'              '999$'9$' $           99''9
              9 ''9$'9' '9$99'$9           9$999 '$99 $ 9 9 $'99            '9$'999'$ ''$9         9'99
              $99 $9 $9      '99$'9$'$' 9 $9$'9$99 9999 '$99                  ''9''$'' 9$99$$'' '         5
<removed-apn>
              '$$$ 9$$'                                                                                   5 =
                      21
                      .)     ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #       9 ;8-:; ;     ,
              -:    )    -& <$-      -&    !    -&    -!    )    -: 2)8     -:     ! <$-     :    2)8
               )    -!   #)     !     )    !    #)    :    #) <$-      )    -:    -:    ) <$-       )
               )    -:     )    :)   :)    );     )   );   -     .)'   -& 2)8 2)8       -:   :     -:
               !    -!   );     -    -:    :)   -     :)   :)     )    -:     )   #) . &     :) . &
              2)8   )      !    :     ) .)' <$-       #)   -      ) <$- . ;       #)    )    :    . &
                                        5                           5                             6
              -& 2#        )    !     :    !      )   ) <$-       #) .-$ .-$ . ;        #) .-$ <$-
                                     6                           =                         =
              :)    :)   :     .-$ .)'     -!   -:    :    . &   -: .-$ 2#        . ;   -    );    -:
              -&    -:   #) 0        <$-   #) <$-     )     )    -:    -:   -:    -:    )    -:    -:
              -:    -:     )    -:   -:    -:   -:    ) . ;      -     -& 0       #)    -&       ) 2)8
               )    )      !    ) .-$      ) <$-      -: . ; .)' <$-        #)    -     #)   :    .)'
              .-$   )    -&     )    -     )      )   :)    ! . &      );   :)    -&    -&   :    2)8
                                                               5                             5
                                                                 2$'   5=

<removed-date>
              -:       :    .-$ 2)8      :        !    !    -        :) .-$ .-$          )      )    !    -&     )
                                 6                                   6                              =
              -: <$- 2)8           ) .)' 2#            )    -:        )      -:     )   -:     #) . ; 2#       #)
                      =
                  !    #)   -      )      )       !   -& 2)8         -! . ; 2#          .-$    #)   :)    :)   :
<removed-apn>
              -&       -&     )    :)     )   #) 2)8         !       #) 2#         -:   -:     -:   #)    :    <$-
              -!       -    :
                            5
                           3 .
                           .) ( 9 $-          ! &9
                            :& #    9 ;8-:&!9- 8            ,
                       5
              $ ''9 '9'$ '9'$ '$$'                $$ 9      $        '$'$'9$'$$ 9$' ''              99   9 9$$ $9$
              '''           $$    $ 99$$9         9$$$' $'99          $9$$ $ 99          9' 9'999        '$ ''$$99
                   $$99'$9 $9       $'9 '$ ' $ 9 $'$9 9' $$$' 9$ 9 '9$$$9'9 9$$ 99''                                   6
              '$ ''''             9 9'    9'$     ' 9       '$       '$ 9'9$''$         9$$ 9       9    $$'9$'$' 9
              $ $'$99$' 9          $ '9$'$        9$$'$'9$$ 99 99 $' $                        $'$ 9      9'$'$$'99
              '    '$ ''9' $9$          ' 999     '    $ $       '       9    99$ ' '$'' $'9             '9 9$     9
              9 '9$$$9$ ' '99$ 9 $ 9'$ $9 9                           ' 9'9$''9          '     ''        ' '9$$' '
              '    '   ' 9       9 ' '$$      $   9''9' '9$ 99$'$'$$ 9 9$ $999                      '    '9    $ '$    6
              '$ ''        ''$     '9 9      $$       '''   $$9       9'$'$ 9           ''9    $$$ 9 9$$'$$$'$9
              9$$$'' 99 $ $               9       ''9 '' '$          $'9 9 ''$' ' $$9$ 9'9 '9$ $$ ' '
              '9       $$'$' 9''' '$$ 9 '''$$ 9'$                    '        ''''$ $9$        9 '9      '$$ 99 $ '
                   '' '''$ $ '$'$'$$9 ''$' 9 '$' $$$$'                             '' $ '''$$$ $ 9            ' '$9'   5
              '    $'$'$99 '9'$          '' $ 9 ''$$$'9'                      $999' $'''$'$$'$           $'$'$'9$      56
              99$'9' ' $ $ 99'               $' 999'$'$''' $$$$'9                  $' $$''$' '$'           9999$$'     6
              $' 9     ' ''        ' 9'9'''           ''$        ' $      $'$'$         ''9$'   ''9 $ $9'9''$$         =
              '''9 9$$'$ $$'9''' 9$ $'$''                   $$' 9         $ '9$         $'$'$$$'9 $$9 '          '''   =
                      $99 9       '99 $$ $$ 9$$ 9$               9 9$ $$ '          $   ''$ '$'$          9''9'
              ' $$$9'9'' $$ ' $ '9'               '$9
                            6
                                                                             2$'   6

<removed-date>
                            6
                          21
                          .) ( 9 $-          ! &9
                           :& #       9 ;8-:; ;      ,
                           6
              0       .-$ .-$     ) . ;      -! <$- . &       !    -     -!    ) .)'     #) <$- <$-
<removed-apn>
              2)8      ! . &      #)   ); <$-        !   -    ) . & 2#         :   <$- .-$     :) . &
              -        ! .)' .)' 2)8 . ;          -:     #) 2#     . & .)' /         ! .-$     -!      :)
                  ! . ; .)'       :    <$-   #) .-$ . & .-$ . & 2)8 <$- . ;              -: <$- 2#
                  ) 2#     . ; <$-      !     -   . ; .)' .)'      -     . &   !     !    ) .)' <$-
                                             5                           5                      6
              :) .)' 2)8 .-$            :) .-$ . ;       -&   -!    -& 2)8 2)8       )   -         ! . ;
                                       6                           =                           =
                  !   -!   :    2)8 <$- . ;       -: . ;      -    <$- 2)8 <$-      -     ! 2#         2#
              /       -:   -:     ) 2#       .-$ /        )   ) .-$ . &        ) .-$     -     :) . ;
              #)       !   :    .)' .)'        ! <$-     -:   !    :     :     :   <$- <$- <$-          )
              <$- . &      :) .)' .)' .-$ 2)8            -! . & 2)8      :) 2)8     :    .-$   :) . ;
              . ;     -:   );     -    .-$     ! . &     ); <$- . &       ) .)'      )   );     !      :
                                                                 5                             5
                  )   :    :    . ;     )    :    <$- /       -    2#     ! .-$     -: . ;         )    )
                                 6                            6                         =
              -:      -: . &      -    .-$ /      . & <$- .-$       ! .)' .-$       -:   -!        )   -:
                          =
              -       . ; <$-     !    -: . &     -       !   ! . & 2)8 0          2#    -:    -: . &
              -! .)'       #)     -!    )    -!   :       )   ! . ;      -:    :    :) 2#      <$-     #)
                                                                   2$'    6

<removed-date>
              <$- .)' . ; .)' . ;               );   :)      );      :       .-$ 2#            ! 2)8     -!    -:    -!
              . ; .)'         -! /        2)8 .-$    :       . & 2)8 2#                  ) 2)8 .)'       -:    :      )
                                                                                                         5
                  !   -!      -: <$-       ) 2#      2)8     :           )       ! <$- <$- <$- .-$             -:     !
                              5                              6                              6
<removed-apn>
              . ;      !      -     .)' . ;     );   -&          ! .-$       :) .-$           -!    -:     !   :     :
                      =                              =
              .-$     -:      -&     -! <$-     :        ! 0         /           !   -!       :    .-$   #) <$-      -:
              2#      :)       !     ! 2)8 . & . & . & /                     2#      /       . & <$- 0         . ;   -!
              -           ) .-$ 2#        <$- . & .-$        -!      :       0       .)' . ;
                            =
                           5
                          3 .
                          .) ( 9 $-             ! &9
                              :& #    9 ;8-:&!9- 8           ,
                       =
              $ '$$'$'$' $ 9$ 9$ 9$                 9$ 9$ 9$         9$$'$ $$'$ $'$9 $ '$                    '$ '$$ '$$
              '$$'$9'$9' ' $$9''9$                 ''$ '$'9          9 $'9 '             9     ''    $9$$ ''       $'' 9$
              99'$$$ '' 9 '$ '                '9    9$'$$$9 9 '$'9$'9                    ' $$'      $ '$     ' 9 $$ '       6
              9$$'$$'$9' $ 9              9 9$ $9 9'9 $9             '$'$9 '             9 $9 $ $$ 99 ''9''$'9
              $9$9' ''9              '$   9 $      '9 9$99'$9 9              $$                                             5
                          =
                          21
                          .)      ( 9 $-        ! &9
                              :& #    9 ;8-:; ;          ,
              0       :       .)' . ; /       /      /       /       /       /       -& . ;         :    :     #) 0
              0       0       . &    -!   -! . ; . ;         -: . &          -: 0            . ;    -!     !    ! .-$
              <$-         !   -:     :)   :   <$- .)'            )       )   -! 0  .-$ . ; <$- .-$                   -&
                                                                             2$' 6

<removed-date>
              :    !     -!    -&   !    -! <$- 0        0        ) . & <$-        -&   -! . ; . ;
               !   )     -&     ! .-$     #)   -!   #) <$- /            :) . & 2)8 .-$       -!       !
                                         5                             5                          6
              :)   #)    );     ! . ;     ) 0       !    #) . ;          ! . &
<removed-apn>
                                  6                         =
                    5 =
                    3 .
                    .) ( 9 $-            ! &9
                        :& #     9 ;8-:&!9- 8       ,
              ''$ 999$''      '9$'9 ''    '9$' 9 ''9 '99'$$' '$ $$$'$99$'' 9'99$'9' '
              9$'' 9 99    ' $'$'99$' 9''9 $9$'9 $ 9$$9$99                   $9 $9$ '9$ ' ''' '9'9
              9$''9999$' '9'9 ''$9        ''$$ ''$ ' ''9' '$ 9$ $9999$'9'' 9' '$9$$'9                     6
              $9'999$'$ $$       99$''' 9$'$' '$99 9 '$99$$9' $9$99$'9$9 9$$9$9$' '
              $9$ '9$'9       '$$9$'99    '$99$'9'99 '$9$99'99'               ' $9 $9 '     '99$'$ ''
              '999 ' ''' '9'$9      9'' 9$ ''$ ' '           ''''9$$'' '9$999 9'            '$99' ' 9
              $'9''$''9' '$''$ 9 '' 9''$'''''$               9 ''$''9' '9''$$'9'$ 9$ 99$'$ '
              $999$'$'99 9 $'9$999        '$'9'99$'9 $ 9''9'$ $ '$' '$99$                   9$99 ' 9''    6
              '99$'9'$'' '9$ 9 $ 9$ 9 ''9 ''99               '' $ 9$'9 $'$$'999'' 9$$''99999
              $$'9 '9 '$      9 $9$$''9 9$'9 9 9 ' '99 9 ''9' 9999 $'9$' $                        9 ''9
              $'9''9 99' '9$99'$9         9$999 '$9$ $ 9$'9$'99               '9$'999'$ 9'$9      9'99
              $99 $9 $     '99$'9$' $ 9$'9$$9 $9 9999 '$99                    9''9''$'' 9$99$$'9 '        5
              '$$$ 9$$'                                                                                   5 =
                    21
                    .)     ( 9 $-        ! &9
                        :& #     9 ;8-:; ;      ,
              -:   )     -& <$-     -&    ! <$-     -&       )   -: .-$       -! <$-    :   .)' 2)8
              -: .-$      ) <$-     -& <$-      )   :    .)' .-$         )    -:   :)   )    -    . &
                                                                 2$'    6

<removed-date>
               #)   :)    :) 0        -&   ); <$- .)'      -& .-$ 2)8       -: .-$      -:    !    -!
               ); 0       -: <$-      -    . & 2)8    )    -: <$-     #)     )     :) .-$    -&    :
              2#    -&    -: .)' <$-        #)    !   #) . & . ;       #)    )     #) . &    #) <$-
                                           5                          5                         6
<removed-apn>
               :) 0       -&     ! . &      )     !   #)   ) .-$ . ;        #) .-$ <$-        :)   :)
                                   6                         =                               =
               :    .-$ .)'      ); .-$     !    );   -: . ; 2#       -: 0        . ; <$-    );    -:
               :    -:    #)     ! <$-     #) <$-     )    )    -:    -:    -:     -:   )    -:    -:
               -:   -:     )     -:   -:   -:    -:   ) . ;     -     -& 0         #)   -&    ) 2)8
                )   #)     !     ) .-$      )    -    -: . ; .)' <$-        #)     -    #)   :     .)'
              .-$     )   -!     -:   -    :) /       );   ! .-$      );    :)     -&   -&   :     2)8
                                                              5                              5
               -:   :     .-$ 2)8     :     !     !   -    :)   :     .-$    )      )    ! .-$      )
                               6                           6                            =
               -: .-$ 2)8        ) .)' 2#         )   -:   )    -:     )    -:     #) . ; 2#       #)
                       =
                !   #)    -      )    )     !    -& 2)8 . ; . ; 2#          .-$    #)   :)   :)    :
               -&   -&    :)     ) . &     :) 2)8     !    #) 2#      -:    -:     -:   #)   :      !
               -!   -     :
                        3 .
                        .) ( 9 $-          ! &9
                          :& #    9 ;8-:&!9- 8        ,
              $99$9'$9'9 9$'9'99'9' $99$99$$9$ 99''9'999$ 99$ 9'9' 9 '9$'9999 '
                                                                2$'    6

<removed-date>
               999 '9'99 9$'$''9' ' 99''99$'9' '9''''''9' 9$' '9$9$9 '$'''''9 '
              '$9   9'99     ' '$
                       3 .
                       .) ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #   9 ;8-:&!9- 8   ,
<removed-apn>
                    ''' '9   '' '' ''    '' ''$' 9 9 ''9    '9   $ $'9   '9   $' $$9$' '
              '99    $   $      9 '''   '$''$' $$' $''$'9$''9     99 '9$9$'   '$9 $9$ '
              $$9$ '$9 9 999'99'999 9'''999$99 9'9$$'9$          $99$'999 $   '9999$99$    6
              9'9'$9     9' 9$'99 $ 9' 9 99
                       3 .
                       .) ( 9 $-        ! &9
                         :& #   9 ;8-:&!9- 8   ,
              9''$'''$99 $'$''9 '99 9999'$ '99 9$9$$'9999 9 '''''$'' 9$'           99''
              $99999$ 99 $$'$''$'9$ ''99'$9'99 9$9 99$999         ''99$$'$    9
                                                      2$'    6

