                                                ABSTRACT
       The present disclosure comprises methods,         apparatus, components,    and techniques    for
pretreatment of biomaterials using targeted wet oxidation. The targeted wet oxidation pretreatment is an
upstream method for converting solid biomass into fuels and/or specialty chemicals. Embodiments of
the present disclosure comprise methods carried out on biomaterials to selectively oxidize lignin
components of the biomass, thereby resulting in bio accessible/digestible biomass fibers. In
embodiments of the present disclosure, such methods may comprise pretreatment processes to prepare
the biomaterials for a subsequent fermentation or other like conversion may be carried out to result in
useful bio fuels or other bioproducts.

                        UNITED STATES PATENT APPLICATION
                                                FOR
                                    WET OXIDATION OF
                                             BIOMASS
                                              Inventors:
                                        RICHARD ALAN
                                        MERRILL KENN
                                            PETERSEN
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
     [0001]   This application claims priority under 35 USC §119 to U.S. Provisional Patent
Application Serial No.    61/753,098,    filed January 16, 2013,       and titled   "METHOD AND
EQUIPMENT FOR PROCESSING LIGNOCELLULOSIC BIOMASS AT HIGH DRY MATTER
CONTENT       BY    TARGETED       WET      OXIDATION        WITHOUT       C02    ACCUMULATION
RESULTING        IN    RIGHTER        PRETREATMENT            pH     AND     LOWER        INHIBITOR
CONCENTRATION," the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
   [0001a]    The present    application is a divisional      application of Australian    Application
No. 2014207481, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
                                             BACKGROUND
     [0002]   Technical Field.
     [0003]   The present disclosure relates generally to pretreatment of biomass using oxygen.
In particular, the present disclosure relates to wet C ombustion of lignin components in a
preconditioned biomass.
     [0004]   Description of Related Art.
     [0005]   General definitions of "biomass" or "biomaterials" may              include agricultural
commodities and residues, plants and trees, algae, crop residues, waste material (including wood
waste and wood residues), animal waste and byproducts (including fats, oils, greases, and
                                                  1

manure), construction waste, and food and yard waste. Readily available sources of biomass may
include agricultural crop residues (e.g., straw, corn stover, bagasse, husk, and hull etc.), purpose
grown energy crops (e.g., Miscanthus and switch grass), forest residues (e.g., saw mill residues,
wood chips, forest thinnings, hog fuel, and scrap wood), and wastes (e.g., municipal solid waste
("MSW") including green waste, industrial food processing waste, manure, and sewage sludge
("SS ")).
        [0006] These biomass materials may be produced in great abundance, but much of such
materials may lack commercially viable end uses. In the cases of MSW and SS, great
expenditures of public funds are typically used to dispose of such wastes, including costs
involved in the collection, treatment, transport, and final disposal. The recovery of energy (i.e.,
fuels) or chemical products from biomass could avoid the costs of disposal as well as reduce
reliance on non-renewable fossil fuel resources which commonly serve as feedstock for the
production of many industrial chemicals.
        [0007] However, many such biomass materials may contain lignin, hemicellulose,
cellulose, and/or other like constituent components in varying amounts.                Such biomass
components may reduce the bioaccessibility of the biomass and be inhibitory for production of
desirable fuels and other bioproducts from the biomass.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [0008] In the following description, reference is made to exemplary embodiments in
which the disclosure may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to
enable those skilled in the art to practice the concepts disclosed herein, and it is to be understood
that modifications to the various disclosed embodiments may be made, and other embodiments
                                                   2

may be utilized, without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. The
following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense.
        [0009] Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment," "an embodiment,"
"one example," or "an example" means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic
described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least one embodiment
of the present disclosure. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment," "in an
embodiment," "one example," or "an example" in various places throughout this specification
are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment or example. Furthermore, the particular
features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable combinations and/or sub
combinations in one or more embodiments or examples.
        [0010] Embodiments of the present disclosure provide methods, apparatus, components,
and/or techniques for biomaterial pretreatment using targeted wet oxidation. In a targeted wet
oxidation pretreatment operation, the bioaccessibility of biomass components can be enhanced.
Embodiments of the present disclosure comprise methods performed on biomaterials to
selectively    oxidize    lignin    components      of    the   biomass,     thereby resulting  in
bioaccessible/digestible biomass fibers. In embodiments of the present disclosure, such methods
may comprise pretreatment processes carried out to prepare the biomaterials for a subsequent
fermentation or other like conversion, which may result in the production of useful biofuels or
other bioproducts.
        [0011] According to embodiments, biomass feedstocks can be pretreated using water,
heat, and moderated concentrations of oxygen to open up the lignocellulosic structure of the
biomaterials. Embodiments of the present disclosure comprise semi-continuous or continuous
processes carried out in one or more reaction vessels. In general, such processes pretreat biomass
                                                   3

at relatively high dry biomass matter content and at a controlled oxygen partial pressure. Such
processes may be referred to herein as a "targeted wet oxidation" processes. A product of such
processes comprises a slurry that may be referred to herein as a "pretreated slurry." The
pretreated slurry from the targeted wet oxidation processes of the present disclosure can
subsequently be hydrolyzed using enzymes to produce a sugar stream or may, fermented using a
biochemical process to produce useful compounds such as volatile fatty acids ("VFAs"),
alcohols, ketones, methane, and other hydrocarbons.
         [0012] According to embodiments of the present disclosure, a targeted wet oxidation
process can be carried out in an integrated system that first preconditions the biomass in a semi
continuous system followed by application of a pretreatment operation. Embodiments of the
present disclosure comprise a reaction assembly for carrying out the various processes disclosed
herein. Embodiments of the reaction assembly comprise a feed hopper, a screw press, a feed
sluice that is fed from the feed hopper, a pretreatment reactor, and a flash tank.
         [0013] In embodiments, preconditioned biomass may be collected in the feed hopper.
Embodiments of the feed hopper comprises a high speed feed screw. A feed sluice inlet valve
that is disposed between the feed hopper and the feed sluice may selectively allow fluid
communication between the feed hopper and the feed sluice, so that biomass can pass from the
feed hopper into the feed sluice while the feed sluice valve is open. In embodiments, the feed
sluice comprises a pressure vessel. Embodiments of the feed sluice comprise a high pressure
steam inlet, a recycled steam inlet, and a feed sluice vent valve. In some embodiments, the feed
sluice further comprises a vent line to let down the pressure in the sluice before opening the inlet
valve. In embodiments, each steam inlet conduit comprises a valve. Embodiments of the feed
                                                   4

sluice further comprise a feed sluice outlet valve and feed sluice outlet conduit that leads to the
pretreatment reactor.
         [0014] While the feed sluice outlet valve is open, biomass can pass from the feed sluice
into the pretreatment reactor via a sluiced feed system. In embodiments, the feed sluice and
pretreatment reactor comprise pressure reaction vessels. In particular, embodiments of the feed
sluice and/or pretreatment reactor can withstand internal pressures of up to 47 bar(g).
         [0015] In embodiments, the feed sluice is smaller in volume than the pretreatment
reactor. For example, embodiments of the feed sluice comprise a volume that is 1-50% of the
pretreatment reactor volume.
         [0016] Embodiments of the pretreatment reactor comprise an inlet conduit from the feed
sluice, a pressure relief valve, a venting conduit with a venting valve, an outlet conduit leading to
the flash tank, and one or more steam inlets. In embodiments, the venting conduit and venting
valve are at or near the top of the pretreatment reactor. In embodiments, the pretreatment reactor
has one or more introduction zones. An introduction zone comprises a zone wherein oxygen and
steam are fed into the pretreatment reactor. In embodiments, an introduction zone comprises a
ring circumscribing an interior volume of the pretreatment reactor. The ring comprises numerous
inward-facing introduction ports, through which high pressure steam, oxygen, or a mixture of
both can be fed into the pretreatment reactor. In one embodiment, the pretreatment reactor
comprises three flanges, each flange representing an introduction zone. Each introduction zone
may be fed by an inlet conduit having a valve. Additional or fewer introduction zones can be
applied depending on the biomass being pretreated and other process considerations. A
pretreatment reactor is made of a series of connected segments that jointly comprise a tube-type
reactor.
                                                   5

         [0017] Embodiments of a vertical pretreatment reactor have a height-to-diameter ratio of,
as an example, 12 to 2. Alternative embodiments comprise a pretreatment reactor comprising a
horizontal reaction vessel having a length-to-diameter ratio of, as an example, 12 to 2.
Alternative embodiments having different dimensions, numbers of introduction zones, and/or
size ratios may also carry out the processes of the present disclosure. Embodiments of the
pretreatment reactor can have a number of introduction zones, ranging from 0.000001 to 10
zones per liter of reactor volume.
         [0018] In embodiments, the pretreatment reactor is equipped with a mixer. The mixer is
configured in a way that effectuates consistent mixing within the pretreatment reactor, thereby
preventing or mitigating biomass buildup. One purpose of the mixer may be to keep the
pretreatment reactor sidewalls clear of biomass buildup and to mitigate gas pocket formation in
the biomass slurry. Mixing may allow for the gas to reach the venting conduit and valve, where it
is continuously or semi-continuously vented from the pretreatment reactor. Additionally, mixing
may help to move the biomass slurry through the reactor and promote uniformity of process
conditions.
         [0019] The outlet conduit leads from the pretreatment reactor to the flash tank. In
embodiments, the outlet conduit has a valve installed thereon to regulate the flow of biomass
slurry into the flash tank. The flash tank receives pretreated biomass from the pretreatment
reactor. In embodiments, the flash tank is equipped with a return loop to the recycled steam inlet
valve of the feed sluice, thereby enabling part of the steam in the flash tank to be recycled back
to the feed sluice.
                                                 6

         [0020] In embodiments, the flash tank is equipped with a mixer to help move the
pretreated slurry through the flash tank to downstream processing. Embodiments of the flash
tank comprise a volume between 1% and 90% of the pretreatment reactor volume.
         [0021] In operation, biomass is pretreated using a targeted wet oxidation process carried
out in one or more reactor systems including a feed sluice, pretreatment reactor, and flash tank,
resulting in the pretreated slurry. The biomass may be fed into a semi-continuous or continuous
type reaction vessel via a high-pressure sluiced inlet chamber. In some embodiments, biomass is
preconditioned as described below prior to feeding into the reactor. In general, oxygen and steam
may be added to the biomass in the pretreatment reactor to effect the pretreatment process. After
the pretreatment reactions are carried out, the pretreated slurry can be flashed from the reactor
into the flash tank.
         [0022] Examples of biomass feedstock that could be processed in operations of the
present disclosure include, but are not limited to: manure, corn stover, straw and other
agricultural residues, wood, municipal household waste, and slaughter house waste. In general,
pretreatment of biomass may be more effective if the biomass has been reduced in size. Biomass
size reduction may be carried out by using commonly available size reduction equipment, such
as a chipper, shredder, or grinder to yield a biomass no larger than approximately two inches in
size. In alternative embodiments, other biomass feedstock sizes may be used.
         [0023] Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise operations where biomass
is preconditioned prior to the wet oxidation pretreatment process. This preconditioning process
may be carried out, for example, through extraction processes where salts and/or water soluble
xylan, xylose, and/or cellulose are removed from the biomass. In general, preconditioning
methods of the present disclosure may be carried out to precondition biomass to obtain a
                                                  7

relatively high concentration of lignin components in biomass fibers. The preconditioning and/or
extraction step may also allow water to penetrate deep into the biomass, thus creating an
oxidizing    dampener    throughout     the lignocellulosic   structure.   As   a   result   of the
preconditioning/extraction, the lignocellulosic structure may also become more porous, thus
creating a larger surface area for the oxygen to react with. As a result, the lignin in the biomass
may be more easily targeted for wet oxidation.
         [0024] In embodiments, incoming biomass feedstock may be preconditioned in a soaking
process, where the biomass is soaked in water at approximately 60'C for a period of up to four
hours to form an aqueous slurry. To enhance the removal of salts from certain types of biomass,
the soaking temperature may be increased to 90'C. In alternative embodiments, dirt or a biomass
feedstock may selectively be preconditioned by washing with water at approximately 20'C. In
embodiments, the prepared biomass feedstock may then be transferred using a feedstock transfer
pump and piping system for biomass preconditioning operations. In an alternative embodiment,
the biomaterial could be dewatered and transferred as a bulk solid. Alternatively, the material
could be converted to a slurry with or without washing.
         [0025] The feedstock receiving, processing, and preparation operations may also include
biological pre-processing using anaerobic digestion ("AD"). An AD operation may be carried
out to convert some of the readily available biomass components like sugar monomers,
oligomers, and organic acids from the feed stock into biogas before wet oxidation, which may be
carried out on the solids left after AD. Removal of easily digestible biomass components, such as
readily available sugar monomers, oligomers, and organic acids may reduce unwanted reactions
that could otherwise happen if raw or untreated lignocellulosic biomass were subjected to wet
                                                 8

oxidation. Undesirable reactions during wet oxidation could form compounds that can inhibit
microbial activity in subsequent bioconversion processes.
        [0026] In some embodiments, preconditioning a biomass comprises realizing a target dry
matter content in the biomass. For example, the biomass can be preconditioned in a screw press
to achieve a dry matter content (by weight) of 15-60%. As further examples, the biomass may be
preconditioned to achieve a dry matter content of 20-50%, 25-55%, or 30-50%. In
embodiments, heating by steam is carried out during the screw press operation.
        [0027] In embodiments, preconditioned biomass may be fed into the feed hopper at
selected pressures ranging from ambient to approximately 47 bars. At such operations, the feed
sluice inlet valve remains open to allow passage of the biomass into the feed sluice from the feed
hopper. While biomass is transferred into the feed sluice, the feed sluice outlet valve may be
closed and the feed sluice vent valve may be open. After filling, the feed sluice inlet valve and
the feed sluice vent valve can be closed. According to embodiments, the preconditioned biomass
within the feed sluice can then be preheated using a combination of, for example, recycled steam
at the recycled steam inlet and high pressure steam at the high pressure steam inlet. In one
embodiment, the high pressure steam is at a temperature of between 110 and 260'C at 0.42-46
bar(g). The recycled steam may comprise low pressure steam recovered via a return loop from
the flash tank to the recycled steam inlet valve of the feed sluice. In embodiments, the feed sluice
can be pressurized using high pressure steam to pressurize the biomass materials prior to feeding
into the pretreatment reactor.
        [0028] The feed sluice outlet valve can be flashed open at a temperature between 110
260'C. In embodiments, the feed sluice outlet valve is flashed open upon reaching a specific
threshold for the volume of biomass within the feed sluice. Alternatively, in other embodiments,
                                                  9

the feed sluice outlet valve is flashed open upon satisfaction of conditions relating to the volume
of biomass within the feed sluice as it relates to a biomass inlet flow rate. For example, the feed
sluice outlet valve can be flashed open upon a determination that in x minutes, the biomass
would otherwise fill the feed sluice, where x may be any selected time value including, but not
limited to, 0.001-60 minutes. According to embodiments, the feed sluice outlet valve may be
open for 0.01-10 seconds. This action may result in a flash release of the feed sluice contents
into the pretreatment reactor. The feed sluice outlet valve is then closed and the remaining
pressure in the feed sluice is released through the feed sluice vent valve.
        [0029] In example embodiments, the pretreatment reactor temperature is maintained at
150 to 230'C at a pressure of 10 to 40 bars. In embodiments, the biomass temperature is
manipulated via the introduction zones by selectively adjusting the temperature and/or amount of
steam introduced, thereby forming a temperature gradient along the first part of the pretreatment
reactor from 110 C to the desired temperature such as 175 to 230 C
        [0030] The wet oxidation reaction is propagated within the pretreatment reactor by
introducing steam and oxygen to the biomass at the elevated temperatures and pressures. The
venting valve may be opened to vent carbon dioxide, carbon, monoxide, oxygen, and other
exhaust gasses from the pretreatment reactor. A selective venting and/or introduction of
steam/oxygen can allow for a controlled oxygen partial pressure within the pretreatment reactor.
By controlling the oxygen partial pressure within the pretreatment reactor, the oxidation rate of
the preconditioned biomass can also be controlled. Continuously adding oxygen to the
pretreatment reactor and maintaining the pretreatment reactor pressure at a constant level by
venting gases from the reactor as they are produced may cause the carbon dioxide and oxygen
concentrations to be lower than in a batch type wet oxidation operation. In such a batch system,
                                                  10

the reactor pressure is typically the sum of the steam pressure (at the reaction temperature) plus
the partial pressure of the oxygen loading. By maintaining a substantially constant reaction
pressure and temperature during the continuous oxygen dosage, and by continuously removing
carbon dioxide, the continuous process can result in a relatively low carbon dioxide
concentration and a relatively high oxygen dosage. Further, the continuous process may also
prevent carbon dioxide from accumulating within the pretreatment reactor.
        [0031] Accumulated carbon dioxide in the pretreatment reactor could dissolve into the
water phase, resulting in a drop in pH. Venting the carbon dioxide may thus control the pH at a
higher, desirable level and thereby reduce the number of undesirable acid-catalyzed reactions
occurring during the oxidation process. These acid-catalyzed reactions are known to form
compounds that can inhibit further downstream processing, included but not limited to biological
downstream processing.
        [0032] In embodiments, during the pretreatment phase, the amount of available oxygen is
in the range of 0.01 to 15% of chemical oxygen demand ("COD"). In other embodiments, the
amount of added oxygen is between 0.1 to 10% of COD.
        [0033] In embodiments, biomass is retained within the pretreatment vessel and subjected
to steam and oxygen introduction for 1 to 60 minutes. In other embodiments, the biomass is
retained in the pretreatment vessel for 5 to 30 minutes.
        [0034] In embodiments of the present disclosure, the steam is added with the oxygen,
therefore causing wet oxidation to occur as soon as the temperature reaches a critical temperature
for a specific biomass compound to be oxidized. In these embodiments, the wet oxidation
reaction can begin as the temperature approaches a target temperature for that reaction. In other
                                                 11

processes, the temperature and pressure may increase beyond the target temperature while and
after the oxygen is added.
         [0035] In methods of the present disclosure, the differences in solubility (in water) of the
oxygen introduced into the pretreatment reactor and the solubility (in water) of reaction products
such as carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide can enable partial gas separation. Partial gas
separation may allow for a better integration of process streams and an overall improved process
economy. For example, inside the reactor, the gas phase may contain more oxygen than the
liquid phase, while the liquid phase contains more carbon dioxide than the gas phase.
         [0036] In some embodiments of the present disclosure, oxygen, acid, and/or oxygen
combined with acid or base are further added to the biomass in a pretreatment process to make
the biomass structure more accessible for biological degradation. Examples of acids that may be
added include sulfuric acid at concentrations from 0.001 tol0%, phosphoric acid or hydro chloric
acid at concentrations from 0.001 tolO0%, or acetic acids at concentrations from 0.1 to 25%.
Examples of bases that may be added include sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide, sodium
carbonate or calcium carbonate at concentrations from 0.1 to 20%.
         [0037] After biomass is introduced into the pretreatment reactor, the biomass may travel
through the pretreatment reactor in a plug flow. The biomass can be flashed out through the
outlet conduit leading to the flash tank as pretreated biomass. Steam in the flash tank can be
recycled back through the system via the return loop from the flash tank to the recycled steam
inlet valve of the feed sluice. Remaining steam pressure can transport the pretreated slurry
downstream from the flash tank. The process may then begin again with new preconditioned
biomaterial entering the feed sluice.
                                                 12

        [0038] As will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of
this disclosure, embodiments and methods set forth herein may present several advantages over
other methods of pretreating biomaterials. For example, embodiments of the present disclosure
comprise a continuous process. Accordingly, the pretreatment reactor may not undergo
significant temperature and pressure fluctuations, as may be associated with a batch type
operation.
        [0039] Additionally, due to the high dry matter content of the preconditioned biomass,
processes of the present disclosure may consume less energy to heat the reaction mixture and
may have less demanding equipment needs, thus reducing operational costs. As another benefit
of some embodiments, relatively low carbon dioxide concentrations relative to traditional
methods and no acid addition may result in less corrosive pretreatment conditions due to higher
pH, thus prolonging the lifespan of equipment and apparatus employed to carry out the
processes.
        [0040] Although the present disclosure is described in terms of certain preferred
embodiments, other embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art, given the
benefit of this disclosure, including embodiments that do not provide all of the benefits and
features set forth herein, which are also within the scope of this disclosure. It is to be understood
that other embodiments may be utilized, without departing from the spirit and scope of the
present disclosure.
                                                 13

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.     A method of pretreating a biomass slurry, comprising:
                   obtaining a dry matter content of the biomass slurry of 15-60% by weight;
                   introducing a flow of steam to a reaction chamber containing the biomass
               slurry;
                   while introducing the flow of steam to the reaction chamber, introducing a
               flow of oxygen to the reaction chamber and the biomass slurry, thereby causing
               oxidation of a lignin component of the biomass slurry;
                   venting carbon dioxide from the reaction chamber to maintain the amount of
               available oxygen within the reaction chamber at 0 .0 1 -15 % of chemical oxygen
               demand; and
                   flashing the biomass to a secondary holding unit by utilizing a pressure
               difference.
        2.     The method of Claim 1, wherein obtaining a dry matter content of the biomass
slurry of between 15-60% further comprises feeding the biomass slurry into a screw press.
        3.     The method of Claim 1, wherein obtaining a dry matter content of the biomass
slurry of 15-60% by weight further comprises introducing steam into the biomass slurry.
        4.     The method of Claim 1, wherein obtaining a dry matter content of the biomass
slurry of 15-60% by weight further comprises obtaining a dry matter content of 25-55% by
weight.
                                                14

        5.     The method of Claim 1, wherein obtaining a dry matter content of the biomass
slurry of 15-60% by weight further comprises obtaining a dry matter content of 30-50% by
weight.
        6.     The method of Claim 1, further comprising preconditioning the biomass slurry by
extracting a nontargeted substance from the biomass slurry.
        7.     The method of Claim 6, wherein the nontargeted substance comprises one
selected from the group consisting of xylan, xylose, cellulose, and salts.
        8.     The method of Claim 6, wherein preconditioning the biomass slurry comprises
soaking the biomass with water having a temperature between sixty and ninety degrees Celsius.
        9.     The method of Claim 1, further comprising an anaerobic digestion pre-processing
operation.
        10.    The method of Claim 1, wherein venting carbon dioxide from the reaction
chamber to maintain the amount of added oxygen within the reaction chamber at 0.01 to 15% of
chemical oxygen demand further comprises venting carbon dioxide from the reaction chamber to
maintain the amount of added oxygen within the reaction chamber at 0.1 to 10% of chemical
oxygen demand.
        11.    The method of Claim 1, wherein following oxidation of the lignin component of
the biomass slurry, the biomass slurry is subjected to a fermentation operation.
                                                 15

       12.     A method of oxidizing lignin components in a biomass slurry, comprising:
                   removing water from the biomass slurry to achieve a dry matter content of
               15-60% by weight;
                   subjecting the biomass slurry to a stream of oxygen and a stream of steam;
                   venting carbon dioxide from the biomass slurry; and
                   flashing the biomass to a secondary holding unit by utilizing a pressure
               difference..
       13.     The method of Claim 12, wherein the stream of steam is at a temperature of 110
to 260'C.
       14.     The method of Claim 12, wherein removing water from the biomass slurry to
achieve a dry matter content of 15-60% by weight comprises passing the biomass slurry through
a screw press.
                                                16

