                                  ABSTRACT
A shock attenuating tile includes a plate having an upper surface for nearing a
load and a plurality of shock absorbing modules depending from an underside
of the plate. Each of the shock absorbing modules is integrally formed with the
plate. The shock attenuating tile may be used with a cover to form a shock
attenuating tiling system suitable as a safe ground covering in playgrounds
and the like.

                                           1
INTERLOCKING AND SHOCK ATTENUATING TILING SYSTEMS
TECHNICAL FIELD
[01]    The present invention relates to ground covering tiles that are made of
resilient synthetic materials. Such tiles find use in many different environments.
Particular embodiments of the present invention are suited for use in
recreational areas such as playgrounds for children.
BACKGROUND
[02]    Any references to methods, apparatus or documents of the prior art are
not to be taken as constituting any evidence or admission that they formed, or
form part of the common general knowledge.
[03]    It has been known to provide rubber floor tiles which interlock at their
edges to produce a tiled surface. Alternate floor tiles may have different colors
or patterns in order to produce a checkerboard effect.
[04]    A number of problems are associated with these prior art interlocking
tiling systems. One problem is that it is time consuming to interlock the edges
of numerous tiles together. Effort and attention must be brought to bear to
precisely locate each tile adjacent its neighbors and interlock the respective
edges together.     Furthermore, if a checkerboard, or other, pattern is to be
created then care must be taken to alternate the differently colored tiles
together. If care is not taken then it may become apparent after the tiles have
been assembled together that two tiles of the same type have inadvertently
been placed adjacent to each other so that the desired pattern is not created.
In that case the tiles will have to be dissembled and reassembled so that the
error is corrected.

                                            2
[05]    A further problem with the edge interlocking tiling systems of the prior art
is that the interlocking between adjacent tiles is sometimes not as good as
might be desired so that after some use the tiles may tend to lift away from their
neighbors at the edges or otherwise cause distortion of the flooring system.
[06]    Another problem with the rubber floor tiles of the prior art is that their
shock attenuating properties may be insufficient for preventing injuries due to a
person, e.g. a child, falling in some situations. It would be advantageous if a
ground cover system were provided that had improved shock attenuating
properties to reduce the likelihood of an injury due to a fall.
[07]    One approach to providing a resilient shock attenuating ground covering
in fall areas, such as playgrounds for children, has been to provide rubber
matting.      Rubber matting may be comprised of shredded tire material for
example.       A problem that is associated with the use of this type of impact
absorbing surface is that it may lose its structural integrity over time and fray so
that the rubber shreds of which it is composed become dispersed.
[08]    It is an object of the invention to provide a tiling system which addresses
one or more of the above described problems or which is at least a useful
commercial alternative to those tiling systems that have hitherto been known.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[09]          According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided
an interlocking floor tile assembly comprising:
          a first repeating array of spaced apart first tiles interconnected by first
bridge portions wherein the first tiles and the first bridge portions define first
spaces therebetween; and
          a second repeating array of spaced apart second tiles interconnected
by second bridge portions wherein the second tiles and the second bridge
portions define second spaces therebetween;
          wherein the second tiles are received in the first spaces and the first
tiles are received in the second spaces.

                                              3
[10]       Preferably the first bridge portions depend (i.e. extend downwardly)
from a level flush with an upper surface of the first tiles to a level between the
top and bottom surface of the first tiles and wherein the second bridges extend
upward from a level flush with the bottom surface of the second tiles to a level
between the top and bottom surface of the second tiles.
[11]       The first and second spaced apart tiles and the first and second
respective spaces therebetween are preferably all of the same shape.
[12]       In a preferred embodiment of the invention the first tiles and the second
tiles bear respective complementary mating portions for mating of the first tiles
with the second tiles.
[13]       The     complementary       mating     portions    preferably    comprise
complementarily chamfered or "drafted" edges in order that the first tiles and
the second tiles snap-fit together.
[14]       The first tiles and the second tiles may be differently colored.
[15]       The first and second tiles may be of different visual appearances
though      substantially square shaped so that the assembly presents a
checkerboard pattern.
[16]       According to a further embodiment of the present invention there is
provided a shock attenuating ground covering including:
           a plurality of interconnected shock attenuating tiles each said tile
comprising a plate having an upper side for bearing a load and a plurality of
shock absorbing modules integrally formed with and depending from an
underside of the plate; and
           a cover supported by the upper surface of the interconnected shock
attenuating tiles, the cover comprising a first repeating array of spaced apart
first tiles interconnected by first bridge portions wherein the first tiles and the
first bridge portions define first spaces therebetween and a second repeating
array of spaced apart second tiles interconnected by second bridge portions

                                             4
wherein the second tiles and the second bridge portions define second spaces
therebetween
          wherein the second tiles are received in the first spaces and the first
tiles are received in the second spaces;
          whereby the ground covering presents a weight bearing surface for
traffic thereon     and    the  interconnected   shock attenuating      tiles   provide
cushioning thereunder.
[17]      Preferably the first bridge portions depend from a level flush with an
upper surface of the first tiles to a level between the top and bottom surface of
the first tiles and wherein the second bridges extend upward from a level flush
with the bottom surface of the second tiles to a level between the top and
bottom surface of the second tiles.
[18]      In one embodiment the first and second spaced apart tiles and the first
and second respective spaces therebetween are all of the same shape.
[19]      In a preferred embodiment of the invention the first tiles and the second
tiles bear respective complementary mating portions for mating of the first tiles
with the second tiles.
[20]      Preferably      the    complementary      mating      portions      comprise
complementarily chamfered or "drafted" edges in order that the first tiles and
the second tiles snap-fit together.
[21]      The first tiles and the second tiles may be differently colored.
[22]      Preferably the first and second tiles are of different visual appearances
and substantially square shaped so that the assembly presents a checkerboard
pattern.
[23]      Each shock attenuating tile may be formed as a single piece of
synthetic material.

                                            5
[24]      It is preferred that each of the shock absorbing members extends from
the underside about a corresponding aperture formed through the plate.
[25]      Preferably engagement formations are formed along outer edges of
each of the shock attenuating tiles.
[26]      The engagement formations may include sockets formed along one
edge of each of the shock attenuating tiles and complementary plugs formed
along another edge of each of said tiles in order that the plurality of the tiles are
interconnected.
[27]      The engagement formations may include a number of hooks formed
along one edge of each of the tiles and a number of complementary
engagement members disposed along an opposite edge of each of the tiles.
[28]      Preferably each of the shock absorbing modules comprises a plurality
of resilient members depending downward from the underside with their remote
ends joined.
[29]      The resilient members may comprise arcuate portions.
[30]      A vegetation resistant mesh may be interposed between the upperside
of the shock attenuating tiles and the cover.
[31]      The mesh may be fastened to the shock attenuating tiles.
[32]      Tiles of the cover may be formed with apertures therethrough to allow
for drainage.
[33]      According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided
an interlocking floor tile assembly comprising a repeating array of spaced apart
tiles interconnected by bridge portions, wherein spaces between the spaced
apart tiles are arranged to receive complementary tiles therein.

                                            6
[34]      Preferably edges of the spaced apart tiles bear engagement formations
shaped       to  mate    with  complementary     engagement    formations  of the
complementary tiles.
[35]      In a preferred embodiment of the invention the complementary mating
portions comprise complementarily chamfered or "drafted" edges in order that
the first tiles and the second tiles snap fit together.
[36]      The spaced apart tiles and said spaces therebetween may be of the
same shape.
[37]      Alternatively the spaced apart tiles and the spaces therebetween may
be of different, though complementary, shapes.
[38]      Preferably the interlocking floor tile assembly is formed of a resilient
synthetic material.
[39]      The resilient synthetic material may comprise polypropylene or another
member of the polyolefin group of materials.
[40]      According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided
a shock attenuating tile comprising:
          a plate having an upper side for bearing a load; and
          a plurality of shock absorbing modules depending from an underside of
the plate,
wherein each of the shock absorbing modules is integrally formed with the
plate.
[41]      The shock attenuating tile is preferably formed as a single piece of
synthetic material.
[42]      Each of the shock absorbing members may extend from the underside
about a corresponding aperture formed through the plate.

                                              7
[43]       Preferably engagement formations are formed along outer edges of the
shock attenuating tile.
[44]       The engagement formations may include sockets formed along one
edge of the shock attenuating tile and complementary plugs formed along
another edge in order that a plurality of the tiles may be interconnected.
[45]       The engagement formations may include a number of hooks formed
along one edge of the tile and a number of complementary engagement
members disposed along an opposite edge of the tile.
[46]       Preferably each of the shock absorbing modules comprises a number
of resilient members. For example, the shock absorbing module may comprise
a plurality of resilient members depending downward from the underside with
their remote ends joined.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[47]       Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may
be discerned from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient
information for those skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed
Description is not to be regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding
Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will make
reference to a number of drawings as follows:
  [48] Figure 1 depicts a tile assembly according to a preferred embodiment of
        a first aspect of the present invention.
  [49] Figure 2 is an exploded view of the tile assembly of Figure 1.
  [50] Figures 2A and 2B are progressive detail views illustrating the snap
        fitting together of ends of tile portions of the tile assembly.
  [51] Figure 2C       depicts a further tile assembly according to another
        embodiment of the present invention.
  [52] Figure 3 depicts a number of shock attenuating tiles according to a
        preferred embodiment of a second aspect of the present invention.

                                            8
  [53] Figure 4 is a detailed view of a portion of the shock attenuating tile of
        Figure 3.
  [54] Figures 4A to 4C are stylized side views of the tile of the shock
        attenuating tile of Figure 3 in use.
  [55] Figure 5 is an exploded view illustrating the interlocking of tiles of Figure
        3.
  [56] Figure 6 depicts the complementary portions of an engagement system
        of the tiles of Figure 3.
  [57] Figure 7 is an exploded view of a shock attenuating ground covering
        according to a further embodiment of the present invention.
  [58] Figure 8 is an exploded view of a portion of another shock attenuating
        ground covering according to another embodiment of the present
        invention.
  [59] Figure 9 is a somewhat stylized side view of a number of the shock
        attenuating tiles of Figure 3 shown stacked in a nested configuration for
        compact shipping.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[60]      Figures 1 depicts an interlocking floor tile assembly 2 whereas Figure 2
comprises an exploded view of the same assembly. With reference to Figure 2,
the interlocking floor tile assembly 2 comprises a first repeating array 1 of
spaced apart first tiles 3 interconnected by first bridge portions 5. The first tiles
3 and the first bridge portions 5 define first spaces 7 therebetween. The
interlocking floor tile assembly 2 further comprises a second repeating array 9
of spaced apart second tiles 11 interconnected by second bridge portions 13
wherein the second tiles and the second bridge portions define second spaces
15 therebetween.
[61]      As shown in Figure 1 the second tiles 11 are received in the first
spaces 7 and the first tiles 3 are received in the second spaces 15.
[62]      In the embodiment depicted in Figures 1 and 2 the first and second
tiles are of the same thickness. The first bridge portions 5 depend from being

                                             9
flush with an upper surface of the first tiles 3 to a level, e.g. halfway, between
the top and bottom surface of the first tiles 3. In complementary fashion the
second bridges 13 extend upward from flush with the bottom surface of the
second tiles 11 to a level, e.g. halfway, between the top and bottom surface of
the second tiles 13.
[63]      As shown in Figures 1 and 2, the first and second spaced apart tiles 3
and 11 and the first and second spaces 7 and 15 therebetween are all of the
same shape. However, in other embodiments the shapes of the first tiles and
the second tiles may be different although the second tiles and the second
spaces remain complementary thereto, respectively.
[64]      The first tiles and the second tiles interlock by overlapping and snap
fitting. Snap-fit joints rely on the ability of a resilient part to be deformed, within
limits, and returned to its original shape when assembly is complete. As the
engagement of the parts continues, an undercut relieves the interference. At
full engagement, there is no stress on either half of the joint. The maximum
interference during assembly should not exceed the proportional limit. After
assembly, the load on the components should only be sufficient to maintain the
engagement of the parts.
[65]      Figure 2A, is a cross section of the adjacent edges of two tile portions
11 and 3 prior to them assuming the interlocked configuration shown in Figure
1. The respective lead in angles 105, 107 of each tile portion 3, 11 are pressed
against each other by a force 113 pressing down on tile portion 3. The force
113 would be applied by a person installing the tile assembly. Subsequently
the snapping points 103, 109 of the edges of the two tile portions 3, 11 are
forced against each other so that they momentarily deform sufficiently, to pass
each other i.e. they "snap" past each so that they assume the interlocked
configuration of Figure 2B wherein their respective locking drafts 101, 111 are
brought adjacent each other as shown (the space between the locking drafts
101, 111 that is visible in Figure 2B is included to assist in understanding the
snap fit. In actual use the space between the locking drafts would be very small
or even nonexistent.       Once in the configuration shown in Figure 2B the tile

                                            10
portions 11 and 3 stay in place due to the interference between the
complementary upper and lower locking drafts on the edges of the tile portions
3 and 11.
[66]     As shown in Figures 1 and 2, the first tile portions 3 and the second tile
portions 11 may be differently colored. Where the first and second tiles are of
different colors and are substantially square shaped the assembly will present a
checkerboard pattern. Other patterns are also possible and different patterns
may be produced on the surface of the tile assembly 2 by interchanging
differently patterned tiles tile arrays 1 and 9.
[67]      For example Figure 2C depicts an interlocking floor tile assembly 4
according to a further embodiment of the present invention which also uses the
snap-fit edge profiles that have been described with reference to Figures 2A
and 2B. The interlocking floor tile assembly 4 comprises a first repeating array
6 of spaced apart first tiles 8 interconnected by first bridge portions 10. The first
tiles 8 and the first bridge portions 10 define first spaces 12 therebetween. The
interlocking floor tile assembly 4 further comprises a second repeating array 14
of spaced apart second tiles 16 interconnected by second bridge portions 18
wherein the second tiles and the second bridge portions define second spaces
20 therebetween.
[68]     As shown in Figure 1 the second tiles 11 are received in the first
spaces 7 and the first tiles 3 are received in the second spaces 15.
[69]      It is preferred that the interlocking floor tile assembly is formed of a
resilient synthetic material. For example, the assembly of Figures 1 and 2
comprises polypropylene. Other members of the polyolefin group of materials,
or indeed other suitably hardwearing and resilient material, might also be used.
[70]      Figure 3 illustrates four interconnected shock attenuating tiles 17
according to a preferred embodiment of a further aspect of the present
invention. Each of the tiles 17 is in accordance with a preferred embodiment of
another aspect of the present invention.         As will be discussed, the shock

                                          11
attenuating tiles can be used in conjunction with a cover, for example a cover
comprising the previously described interlocking tile assemblies to form a shock
absorbing ground cover that is suitable for use in creches and playgrounds.
[71]      With reference to Figure 4, each tile 17 includes a plate 19 having an
upper side for bearing a load. A plurality of shock absorbing modules 21
depend from an underside of the plate 19.            Each of the shock absorbing
modules 21 is integrally formed with the plate 19. For example, it is preferred
that the tile 17, including the plate 19 and shock absorbing modules 21 be
formed of polypropylene or a similar resilient synthetic material by an injection
molding process.
[72]      In the presently described embodiment each of the shock absorbing
modules 21 extends from the underside of plate 19 about a corresponding
aperture 23 formed through the plate 19.        It will be realized that forming the
plate with apertures 23 reduces the amount of material used in producing the
tile without compromising the strength and resilience of the finished product.
[73]      Each of the shock absorbing modules 21 comprises a number of, in the
present case four, resilient members 25. The resilient members 25 depend
downward from the underside of plate 19 about the periphery of aperture 23.
The remote ends of the resilient members 25 are fastened together due to
them all interconnecting at their lower limits.
[74]      Referring now to Figure 4A there is shown a somewhat stylistic side
view of the tile 17 resting upon a floor or ground plane 29. As shown in Figure
4B, upon a downward shock being applied to the upper side of the plate 19, as
indicated by arrows 27, for example due to a child falling, the shock absorbing
modules 21 non destructively deform to absorb the shock and cushion the
child. Once the force 27 has been removed the shock absorbing modules 21
return to their prior shape as shown in Figure 4C.
[75]      Referring now to Figure 5, engagement formations are formed along
outer edges of the shock attenuating tile 17. The engagement formations

                                           12
include sockets 31 formed along one edge of the shock attenuating tile and
complementary plugs 33 formed along another edge in order that a plurality of
the tiles may be interconnected end to end.
[76]      Furthermore, the engagement members also include a number of
hooks 35 formed along one edge of the tile 17 and a number of complementary
engagement members 37 (visible in Figure 6) disposed along an opposite edge
of the tile. If the same fastening formations were used on both sides it would
be difficult to lay the tiles.    The tiles are interconnected using a two part
procedure. The first step is the hooking of a new tile into a tile that is already
laid using the hooks 35 and engagement members 37. In step 2 the tile is then
laid down and snaps into the adjacent tile next to it with the assistance of the
sockets 31 and plugs 33.
[77]      Referring now to Figure 7,      there is depicted a portion of a shock
attenuating ground covering including         a shock attenuating tile 17 with a
cover 39 over its upper surface. A vegetation resistant mesh 41 is interposed
between the shock attenuating tiles 17 and the underside of the cover to
prevent the growth of grasses and weeds.
[78]      The mesh 41 may be fastened to the shock attenuating tile 17, for
example by means of screw fasteners.
[79]      As shown in exploded view in Figure 8, in another embodiment the
cover may comprise the previously described interlocking floor tile assembly 2.
It is advantageous that the interlocking floor tile assembly 2 be used as the
cover because it lends itself to the production of different visual patterns and
has enhanced structural integrity due to the tile portions interlocking across the
width and breadth of each tile assembly. The cover provides a weight bearing
surface for traffic, e.g. children playing thereon, and is supported by the shock
attenuating tile that is located beneath it.
[80]      The cover may be fastened to the shock attenuating tile 17 by means
of screw fasteners.

                                             13
[81]      The tiles of the interlocking floor tile assembly 2 may be formed with
drainage apertures 8 therethrough so that water does not pool thereon.
[82]      Alternatively the cover 39 may be formed by trowelling a suitable
settable compound over the mesh 41 such as an EPDM (ethylene propylene
diene monomer (M-class) rubber) or a TPV (a thermoplastic vulcanizate) or a
polyurethane polymer-based compound.
[83]      The shock attenuating tile may also be used as a base for other
decorative finishes in a tile form manufactured as a single piece.
[84]      One of the benefits of the shock attenuating ground covering that has
been described is that the shock attenuating tiles are formed so that they can
"nest", i.e. be tightly stacked, as illustrated diagrammatically in Figure 9. This is
very advantageous because it means that sufficient tiles to cover a large
surface may be compactly packed for shipping.           For example, the inventor
estimates that sufficient shock attenuating tiles of the type shown in Figure 5
can be packed into a standard shipping container to cover four times the area
that could be covered by a shipping container of prior art rubber tiles of similar
shock absorbing characteristics.
[85]      In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in
language more or less specific to structural or methodical features. The term
"comprises" and its variations, such as "comprising" and "comprised of' is used
throughout in an inclusive sense and not to the exclusion of any additional
features.    It is to be understood that the invention is not limited to specific
features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore,
claimed in any of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the
appended claims appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.

                                           14
[86]     Throughout the specification and claims (if present), unless the context
requires otherwise, the term "substantially" or "about" will be understood to not
be limited to the value for the range qualified by the terms.
[87]   Throughout the description and claims of this specification, the singular
encompasses the plural unless the context otherwise requires.          In particular,
where the indefinite article is used, the specification is to be understood as
contemplating plurality as well as singularity, unless the context requires
otherwise.
[88]    Features, integers, characteristics, compounds, chemical moieties or
groups described in conjunction with a particular aspect, embodiment or
example of the invention are to be understood to be applicable to any other
aspect, embodiment       or example       described herein    unless   incompatible
therewith.
[89]   Any embodiment of the invention is meant to be illustrative only and is
not meant to be limiting to the invention. Therefore, it should be appreciated
that various other changes and modifications can be made to any embodiment
described without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
  [90]   This application is a divisional application from Australian application
  2014253669. The full disclosure of AU 2014253669 is incorporated herein by
  reference.

                                           15
1.     A shock attenuating tile comprising:
a plate having an upper side for bearing a load;
a plurality of shock absorbing modules integrally formed with the plate and extending
from an underside of the plate;
wherein each shock absorbing module is formed from resiliently deformable
members.
2.     The shock attenuating tile of claim 1 wherein the resiliently deformable
members are formed with spaces between adjacent members.
3.     The shock attenuating tile of claim 2 wherein the resiliently deformable
members are elongate members connected at one end to the plate and joined
together at an opposite end.
4.     The shock attenuating tile of claim 1 wherein the plate and the resiliently
deformable members are formed as a single piece of material.
5.     The shock attenuating tile of claim 4 wherein the material is synthetic material.
6.     The shock attenuating tile of claim 4 wherein the material is polypropylene.
7.     The shock attenuating tile of claim 1 wherein the plate comprises a plurality of
apertures, there being one aperture adjacent each shock absorbing module.
8.     The shock attenuating tile of claim 3 wherein the plate comprises a plurality of
apertures and the ends of the elongate members connected to the plate are spaced
around the aperture.
9.     The shock attenuating tile of claim 3 wherein there are four elongate resiliently
deformable members.
10.    The shock attenuating tile of claim 1 further comprising engagement
formations formed along outer edges of the shock attenuating tile.
11.    The shock attenuating tile of claim 10 wherein the engagement formations
include sockets formed along an edge of the shock attenuating tile and
complementary plugs formed along an opposite edge of the shock attenuating tile.

                                           16
12.    The shock attenuating tile of claim 10 wherein the engagement formations
include hooks formed along an edge of the shock attenuating tile and
complementary hooks formed along an opposite edge of the shock attenuating tile.
13.    A shock attenuating ground cover comprising a plurality of interconnected
shock attenuating tiles according to claim 10 and a cover supported on an upper
surface of the interconnected shock attenuating tiles.
14.    The shock attenuating ground cover of claim 13 further comprising a
vegetation resistant mesh between the interconnected shock attenuating tiles and
the cover.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   

                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        
                  
            

      
      
      
                                                 

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   

