                                         ABSTRACT
Provided are mutated acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) nucleic acids and the proteins
encoded by the mutated nucleic acids. Also provided are canola plants, cells, and seeds
comprising the mutated genes.

       MUTATED ACETOHYDROXYACID SYNTHASE GENES IN BRASSICA
             CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED PATENT APPLICATIONS
[0001]    This application is a divisional of No. 2015275307 filed 23 December 2015, which
in turn is a divisional of No. 2008308530 filed 3 October 2008, which claims the benefit of
U.S. Prov. App. No. 60/977,944, filed October 5, 2007. The above referenced applications
are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]    This invention relates to the field of herbicide resistant plants and seeds and more
specifically to mutations in the acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene and protein.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]    The following description is provided simply as an aid in understanding the
invention and is not admitted to describe or constitute prior art to the invention.
[0004]    Benefits of herbicide-tolerant plants are known. For example, herbicide-tolerant
plants may reduce the need for tillage to control weeds thereby effectively reducing soil
erosion.
[0005]    The introduction of exogenous mutant genes into plants is well documented. For
example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,545,060 relates to increasing a plant's resistance to glyphosate by
introducing into the plant's genome a gene coding for an EPSPS variant having at least one
mutation that renders the enzyme more resistant to its competitive inhibitor, i.e., glyphosate.
[0006]    Examples of some of the mutations in AHAS genes are known. See e.g. U.S. Patent
No. 7,094,606.
[0007]    Through chemical mutagenesis, a mutation was found in the lower expressed AHAS
I gene. This mutation is known as PM- 1 (a mutation at an equivalent position known as 653
based on the acetolactate synthase (ALS) amino acid sequence of Arabidopsis, a serine to
asparagine amino acid change, respectively encoded as follows - AGT to AAT). Another
mutation was found in the higher expressed gene AHAS III, known as PM-2 (a mutation at
an equivalent
                                                  1

  position known as 574, a tryptophan to leucine amino acid change, respectively encoded as
  follows - TGG to TTG). These two mutations, PM-I and PM-2, are combined in a commercial
  variety of Canola known as Clearfield Canola (Tan et a., 2005).
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  [00081   The invention relates in part to mutated acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) nucleic
  acids and the proteins encoded by the mutated nucleic acids. The invention also relates in part to
  canola plants, cells, and seeds comprising these mutated nucleic acids and proteins.
  100091   In one aspect, there is provided an isolated nucleic acid encoding a Brassica
  acetohydroxyacid synthase protein having a mutation at one or more amino acid positions
 corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, R577,
  and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In some embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid encodes a protein
 having one or more mutations selected from the group consisting of: an alanine to valine
 substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1, an alanine to aspartic
 acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1, an aspartic acid to
 glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376 of SEQ ID NO: 1, a
 tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1,
 a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1,
 a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
 NO: 1, a tryptophan to shrine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
 NO: 1, an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
 ID NO: 1, a serine to asparagine at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1,
 and a serine to threonine at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In some
embodiments, the mutation is a seine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to
position 653 of SEQ ID NO: I in which the mutation is not S653N in Brassica AHAS I gene. 4.
In some embodiments, the mutation is a serine to threonine substitution at a position
corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In some embodiments, the mutation is a
tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1,

 in which the mutation is not W574L in Brassica AHAS III gene. In some embodiments, the
 mutation is an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
 ID NO: 1. In other embodiments the mutation is an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a
 position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In other embodiments, the isolated
 nucleic acid encodes a protein having a mutation selected from the mutations shown in Table 2.
 In certain embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid encodes a protein having two or more
 mutations. In some embodiments, the two or more mutations are selected from Table 2. In some
 embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid encodes a protein having a mutation at a position
 corresponding to S653 of SEQ ID NO: I and a mutation at one or more amino acid positions
 corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, and R577
 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In other embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid encodes a protein having a
 mutation at a position corresponding to W574 of SEQ ID NO: I and a mutation at a position
 corresponding to R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In some embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid
encodes an acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) protein that is resistant to inhibition by an
AHAS-inhibiting herbicide. In some embodiments, the AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is selected
from the group consisting of herbicides of: imidazolinone, sulfonylurea, triazolopyrimidine,
pyrimidinylthiobenzoate, sulfonylamino-carbonyltriazolinone, and mixtures thereof. In some
embodiments, the herbicide is an imidazolinone herbicide. In some embodiments, the herbicide
is a sulfonylurea herbicide. In some embodiments the the isolated nucleic acid encodes an
AHAS protein comprising 70% or more identity to one or more of the amino acid sequences in
Figure 2. In some embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid encodes a Brassicanapus AHAS
protein. In other embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid encodes a Brassica napus AHAS I
protein. In certain embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid encodes a Brassica napus AHAS III
protein.
[00101    In another aspect, there is provided an expression vector containing an isolated nucleic
acid encoding a Brassica acetohydroxyacid synthase protein having a mutation at one or more
amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205,
D376, W574, R577, and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In some embodiments, the expression vector
                                                   3

 contains an isolated nucleic acid encoding a protein having one or more mutations selected from
 the group consisting of: an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position
 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1, an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to
 position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1, an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position
 corresponding to position 376 of SEQ ID NO: 1, a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a
 position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a
 position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, a tryptophan to methionine substitution
 at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, a tryptophan to serine substitution
 at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, an arginine to tryptophan
 substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ ID NO: 1, a serine to asparagine
 at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1, and a serine to threonine at a
position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In some embodiments, the mutation is
 a serine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1
in which the mutation is not S653N in BrassicaAHAS I gene. 4. In some embodiments, the
mutation is a serine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ
ID NO: 1. In some embodiments, the mutation is a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a
position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, in which the mutation is not W574L in
Brassica AHAS III gene. In some embodiments, the mutation is an alanine to valine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In other embodiments
the mutation is an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205
of SEQ ID NO: 1.
[0011]     In another aspect, there is provided a plant having a Brassica acetohydroxyacid
synthase (AHAS) gene, in which the gene encodes a protein having a mutation at one or more
amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205,
D376, W574, R577, and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In another aspect, there is provided a plant
having a Brassica acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene, in which the plant is resistant to an
AHAS-inhibiting herbicide, in which the gene encodes a protein having a mutation at one or
more amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting of:
                                                   4

  A205, D376, W574, R577, and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In some embodiments of the above
  aspects, the plant has an AHAS gene which encodes a protein having one or more mutations
 selected from the group consisting of: an alanine to valine substitution at a position
 corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1, an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a
 position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1, an aspartic acid to glutamic acid
 substitution at a position corresponding to position 376 of SEQ ID NO: 1, a tryptophan to
 cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, a tryptophan
 to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, a tryptophan
 to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, a
 tryptophan to shrine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, an
 arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ ID NO: 1,
 a serine to asparagine at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1, and a serine
 to threonine at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1, In some
 embodiments, the mutation is a serine to asparaginesubstitution at a position corresponding to
position 653 of SEQ ID NO: I in which the mutation is not S653N in Brassica AHAS I gene. 4.
In some embodiments, the mutation is a shrine to threonine substitution at a position
corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In some embodiments, the mutation is a
tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1,
in which the mutation is not W574L in Brassica AHAS III gene. In some embodiments, the
mutation is an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
ID NO: 1. In other embodiments the mutation is an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a
position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In other embodiments, the mutation
selected from the mutations shown in Table 2. In certain embodiments, the plant has an AHAS
gene which encodes a protein having two or more mutations. In some embodiments, the two or
more mutations are selected from Table 2. In some embodiments, the plant has an AHAS gene
which encodes a protein having a mutation at a position corresponding to S653 of SEQ ID NO: I
and a mutation at one or more amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected from the
group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, and R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In other embodiments, the
                                                  5

  plant has an AHAS gene which encodes a protein having a mutation at a position corresponding
  to W574 of SEQ ID NO: I and a mutation at a position corresponding to R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
  In some embodiments, the plant has an AHAS gene which encodes a protein that is resistant to
  inhibition by an AHAS-inhibiting herbicide. In some embodiments the plant has an AHAS gene
  which encodes a protein comprising 70% or more identity to one or more of the amino acid
  sequences in Figure 2. In some embodiments, the plant is resistant to the application of at least
  one AHAS-inhibiting herbicide. In some embodiments, the AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is
  selected from the group consisting of herbicides of: imidazolinone, sulfonylurea,
 triazolopyrimidine, pyrimidinylthiobenzoate, sulfonylamino-carbonyltriazolinone, and mixtures
 thereof. In some embodiments, the herbicide is an imidazolinone herbicide. In some
 embodiments, the herbicide is a sulfonylurea herbicide. In some embodiments, the plant is a
 Brassicaplant produced by growing a seed of a line selected from the lines listed in Table 2. In
 some embodiments, the plant is a Brassica species. In other embodiments, the plant is Brassica
 napus. In some embodiments, the plant is selected from Spring Oilseed Rape and Winter
 Oilseed Rape. In some embodiments, the plant has an AHAS gene which encodes a Brassica
 napus AHAS protein. In other embodiments, the plant has an AHAS gene which encodes a
 Brassicanapus AHAS I protein. In certain embodiments, the plant has an AHAS gene which
 encodes a Brassica napus AHAS III protein. In some embodiments, the plant is non-transgenic.
  [00121    In one aspect there is provided a seed having a Brassica acetohydroxyacid synthase
 (AHAS) gene encoding a protein having a mutation at one or more amino acid positions
corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, R577,
and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In some embodiments, the seed has an AHAS gene which encodes
a protein having one or more mutations selected from the group consisting of: an alanine to
valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1, an alanine to
aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1, an
aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376 of SEQ ID
NO: 1, a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
ID NO: 1, a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
                                                   6

 ID NO: 1, a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
  SEQ ID NO: 1, a tryptophan to serine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
 SEQ ID NO: I. an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577
 of SEQ ID NO: 1, a seine to asparagine at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
 NO: 1, and a shrine to threonine at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In
 some embodiments, the mutation is a serine to asparagine substitution at a position
 corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1 in which the mutation is not S653N in Brassica
 AHAS I gene. 4. In some embodiments, the mutation is a serine to threonine substitution at a
 position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In some embodiments, the mutation is
 a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1,
 in which the mutation is not W574L in Brassica AHAS III gene. In some embodiments, the
 mutation is an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
 ID NO: 1. In other embodiments the mutation is an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a
 position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In other embodiments, the mutation
 selected from the mutations shown in Table 2. In certain embodiments, the seed has an AHAS
 gene which encodes a protein having two or more mutations. In some embodiments, the two or
more mutations are selected from Table 2. In some embodiments, the seed has an AHAS gene
which encodes a protein having a mutation at a position corresponding to S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1
and a mutation at one or more amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected from the
group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, and R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In other embodiments, the
seed has an AHAS gene which encodes a protein having a mutation at a position corresponding
to W574 of SEQ ID NO: I and a mutation at a position corresponding to R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
In some embodiments, the seed has an AHAS gene which encodes a protein that is resistant to
inhibition by an AHA S-inhibiting herbicide. In some embodiments the seed has an AHAS gene
which encodes a protein comprising 70% or more identity to one or more of the amino acid
sequences in Figure 2. In some embodiments, the seed is resistant to the application of at least
one AHAS-inhibiting herbicide. In some embodiments, the AIAS-inhibiting herbicide is
selected from the group consisting of herbicides of: imidazolinone, sulfonylurea,
                                                   7

  triazolopyrimidine, pyrimidinylthiobenzoate, sulfonylamino-carbonyltriazolinone, and mixtures
  thereof. In some embodiments, the herbicide is an imidazolinone herbicide. In some
  embodiments, the herbicide is a sulfonylurea herbicide. In some embodiments, the seed is a
 Brassica seed. In some embodiments, the seed has an AHAS gene which encodes a Brassica
  napus AHAS protein. In other embodiments, the seed has an AHAS gene which encodes a
 Brassica napus AHAS I protein. In certain embodiments, the seed has an AHAS gene which
  encodes a Brassica napus AHAS III protein. In some embodiments, the seed is a seed of a
 Brassica plant line in which the line is selected from the lines listed in Table 2. In some
 embodiments, the seed is non-transgenic. In some embodiments, there is provided a seed
 produced by a plant of the methods disclosed herein. In other embodiments, the seed is a canola
 seed.
  [00131   In another aspect, there is provided a method for producing an herbicide-resistant plant
 by introducing into a plant cell a gene repair oligonucleobase (GRON) with a targeted mutation
 in an acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene to produce a plant cell with an AHAS gene that
 expresses an AHAS protein having a mutation at one or more amino acid positions
 corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, and S653
 of SEQ ID NO: I; and identifying a plant cell having substantially normal growth and catalytic
 activity as compared to a corresponding wild-type plant cell in the presence of an AHAS
 inhibiting herbicide; and regenerating a non-transgenic herbicide-resistant plant having a mutated
AHAS gene from said plant cell. In another aspect, there is provided a method for increasing the
herbicide-resistance of a plant by: (a) crossing a first Brassica plant to a second Brassicaplant,
in which the first plant comprises a Brassica acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene, in which
the gene encodes a protein having a mutation at one or more amino acid positions corresponding
to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, R577, and S653 of SEQ
ID NO: 1; (b) screening a population resulting from the cross for increased AHAS herbicide
resistance; (c) selecting a member resulting from the cross having increased AHAS herbicide
resistance; and (d) producing seeds resulting from the cross. In some embodiments, a hybrid
seed is produced by any of the above methods. In some embodiments, plants are grown from
                                                   8

 seeds produced by any of the above methods. In another aspect., there is provided a method of
 controlling weeds in a field containing plants by applying an effective amount of at least one
 AHAS-inhibiting herbicide to a field containing said weeds and plants, the plant having a
 Brassica acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene, in which the gene encodes a protein having a
 mutation at one or more amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected from the
 group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, R577, and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1. 134. In some
 embodiments, the AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is selected from the group consisting of herbicides
 of: imidazolinone, sulfonylurea, triazolopyrimidine, pyrimidinylthiobenzoate, sulfonylamino
 carbonyltriazolinone, and mixtures thereof. In other embodiments, the AHAS-inhibiting
 herbicide is an imidazolinone herbicide. In other embodiments, the AHAS-inhibiting herbicide
 is a sulfonylurea herbicide.
 [0014]    The term "nucleic acid" or "nucleic acid sequence" refers to an oligonucleotide,
 nucleotide or polynucleotide, and fragments or portions thereof, which may be single or double
 stranded, and represent the sense or antisense strand. A nucleic acid may include DNA or RNA,
 and may be of natural or synthetic origin. For example, a nucleic acid may include mRNA or
 cDNA. Nucleic acid may include nucleic acid that has been amplified (e.g., using polymerase
 chain reaction). The convention "NTwt###NTmut" is used to indicate a mutation that results in
the wild-type nucleotide NTwt at position ### in the nucleic acid being replaced with mutant
NTmut. The single letter code for nucleotides is as described in the U.S. Patent Office Manual
of Patent Examining Procedure, section 2422, table 1. In this regard, the nucleotide designation
"R" means purine such as guanine or adenine, "Y" means pyrimidine such as cytosine or
thymine (uracil if RNA); "M" means adenine or cytosine; "K" means guanine or thymine; and
"W" means adenine or thymine.
[00151     A "gene" refers to a DNA sequence that comprises control and coding sequences
necessary for the production of an RNA, which may have a non-coding function (e.g., a
ribosomal or transfer RNA) or which may include a polypeptide or a polypeptide precursor. The
RNA or polypeptide may be encoded by a full length coding sequence or by any portion of the
                                                  9

  coding sequence so long as the desired activity or function is retained. As used herein, the term
  "AHAS Gene" refers to a gene that has homology to a Brassica AHAS gene. In certain
  embodiments, the AHAS gene has 70%; 75%; 80%; 85%; 90%; 95%; 96%; 97%; 98%; 99%; or
  100% identity to a specific Brassica AHAS gene, for example the Brassica napus AHAS gene I
 or the Brassica napus AHAS gene III. In certain embodiments, the AHAS gene has 60%; 70%;
  75%; 80%; 85%; 90%; 95%; 96%; 97%; 98%; 99%; or 100% identity to a sequence selected
 from the sequences in Figure 3. In certain embodiments, the AHAS gene is modified with at
 least one mutation. In other embodiments, the AHAS gene is modified with at least two
 mutations. In some embodiments, the AHAS gene is modified with at least one mutation
 selected from the mutations shown in Table 2. In certain embodiments, the AHAS gene is
 modified with at least two mutations shown in Table 2. In certain embodiments, the mutation is
 a conserved mutation.
 [0016]    By "coding sequence" is meant a sequence of a nucleic acid or its complement, or a part
 thereof, that can be transcribed and/or translated to produce the mRNA for and/or the
 polypeptide or a fragment thereof. Coding sequences include exons in a genomic DNA or
 immature primary RNA transcripts, which are joined together by the cell's biochemical
 machinery to provide a mature mRNA. The anti-sense strand is the complement of such a
nucleic acid, and the encoding sequence can be deduced therefrom.
 100171    By "non-coding sequence" is meant a sequence of a nucleic acid or its complement, or a
part thereof, that is not transcribed into amino acid in vivo, or where tRNA does not interact to
place or attempt to place an amino acid. Non-coding sequences include both intron sequences in
genomic DNA or immature primary RNA transcripts, and gene-associated sequences such as
promoters, enhancers, silencers, etc.
10018]     A nucleobase is a base., which in certain preferred embodiments is a purine, pyrimidine,
or a derivative or analog thereof. Nucleosides are nucleobases that contain a pentosefuranosyl
moiety, e.g., an optionally substituted riboside or 2'-deoxyriboside. Nucleosides can be linked
by one of several linkage moieties, which may or may not contain phosphorus. Nucleosides that
                                                   10

  are linked by unsubstituted phosphodiester linkages are termed nucleotides. The term
  "nucleobase" as used herein includes peptide nucleobases, the subunits of peptide nucleic acids,
 and morpholine nucleobases as well as nucleosides and nucleotides.
  [00191    An oligonucleobase is a polymer comprising nucleobases; preferably at least a portion
 of which can hybridize by Watson-Crick base pairing to a DNA having the complementary
 sequence. An oligonucleobase chain may have a single 5' and 3' terminus, which are the ultimate
 nucleobases of the polymer. A particular oligonucleobase chain can contain nucleobases of all
 types. An oligonucleobase compound is a compound comprising one or more oligonucleobase
 chains that may be complementary and hybridized by Watson-Crick base pairing. Ribo-type
 nucleobases include pentosefuranosyl containing nucleobases wherein the 2' carbon is a
 methylene substituted with a hydroxyl, alkyloxy or halogen. Deoxyribo-type nucleobases are
 nucleobases other than ribo-type nucleobases and include all nucleobases that do not contain a
pentosefuranosyl moiety.
 10020]    In certain embodiments, an oligonucleobase strand may include both oligonucleobase
chains and segments or regions of oligonucleobase chains. An oligonucleobase strand may have
a 3' end and a 5' end, and when an oligonucleobase strand is coextensive with a chain, the 3' and
5' ends of the strand are also 3' and 5' termini of the chain.
[00211     The term "gene repair oligonucleobase" as used herein denotes oligonucleobases,
including mixed duplex oligonucleotides, non-nucleotide containing molecules, single stranded
oligodeoxynucleotides and other gene repair molecules.
[0022]     By "isolated", when referring to a nucleic acid (e.g., an oligonucleotide such as RNA,
DNA, or a mixed polymer) is meant a nucleic acid that is apart from a substantial portion of the
genome in which it naturally occurs and/or is substantially separated from other cellular
components which naturally accompany such nucleic acid. For example, any nucleic acid that
has been produced synthetically (e.g., by serial base condensation) is considered to be isolated.
Likewise, nucleic acids that are recombinantly expressed, cloned, produced by a primer
                                                  II

  extension reaction (e.g., PCR), or otherwise excised from a genome are also considered to be
  isolated.
   100231    An "amino acid sequence" refers to a polypeptide or protein sequence. The convention
  "AAwt###AAmut" is used to indicate a mutation that results in the wild-type amino acid AAwt
  at position ### in the polypeptide being replaced with mutant AAmut.
  [0024]    By "complement" is meant the complementary sequence to a nucleic acid according to
 standard Watson/Crick pairing rules. A complement sequence can also be a sequence of RNA
 complementary to the DNA sequence or its complement sequence, and can also be a cDNA.
  100251    By "substantially complementary" is meant that two sequences hybridize under
 stringent hybridization conditions. The skilled artisan will understand that substantially
 complementary sequences need not hybridize along their entire length.
 100261     As used herein the term "codon" refers to a sequence of three adjacent nucleotides
 (either RNA or DNA) constituting the genetic code that determines the insertion of a specific
 amino acid in a polypeptide chain during protein synthesis or the signal to stop protein synthesis.
 The term "codon" is also used to refer to the corresponding (and complementary) sequences of
 three nucleotides in the messenger RNA into which the original DNA is transcribed.
  100271    As used herein, the term "AHAS Protein" refers to a protein that has homology to a
Brassica AHAS protein. In certain embodiments, the AHAS protein has 70%; 75%; 80%; 85%;
90%; 95%; 96%; 97%; 98%; 99%; or 100% identity to a specific BrassicaAHAS protein, such
as for example, the Brassica napus AHAS protein I or the Brassica napus AHAS protein III. In
certain embodiments, the AHAS protein has 70%; 75%; 80%; 85%; 90%; 95%; 96%; 97%; 98%;
99%; or 100% identity to a sequence selected from the sequences in Figure 2. In certain
embodiments, the AHAS protein is modified with at least one mutation. In other embodiments,
the AHAS protein is modified with at least two mutations. In some embodiments, the AHAS
protein is modified with at least one mutation selected from the mutations shown in Table 2. In
certain embodiments, the AHAS protein is modified with at least two mutations shown in Table
2. In certain embodiments, the mutation is a conserved mutation.
                                                  12

   [00281    The term "wild-type" refers to a gene or a gene product that has the characteristics of
  that gene or gene product when isolated from a naturally occurring source, A wild-type gene is
  that which is most frequently observed in a population and is thus arbitrarily designated the
  "normal" or "wild-type" form of the gene. "Wild-type" may also refer to the sequence at a
  specific nucleotide position or positions, or the sequence at a particular codon position or
  positions, or the sequence at a particular amino acid position or positions.
  [0029]    As used herein, "mutant," or "modified" refers to a nucleic acid or protein which
  displays modifications in sequence and or functional properties (i.e., altered characteristics)
  when compared to the wild-type gene or gene product. "Mutant," or "modified" also refers to the
  sequence at a specific nucleotide position or positions, or the sequence at a particular codon
 position or positions, or the sequence at a particular amino acid position or positions which
 displays modifications in sequence and or functional properties (i.e., altered characteristics)
 when compared to the wild-type gene or gene product.
 [0030]     A "mutation" is meant to encompass at least a single nucleotide variation in a nucleic
 acid sequence or a single amino acid variation in a polypeptide relative to the normal sequence or
 wild-type sequence. A mutation may include a substitution, a deletion, an inversion or an
 insertion.
 [00311    As used herein, the term "homology" refers to sequence similarity among proteins and
 DNA. The term "homology" or "homologous" refers to a degree of identity. There may be
partial homology or complete homology. A partially homologous sequence is one that has less
than 100% sequence identity when compared to another sequence.
 [0032]    "Heterozygous" refers to having different alleles at one or more genetic loci in
homologous chromosome segments. As used herein "heterozygous" may also refer to a sample,
a cell, a cell population or an organism in which different alleles at one or more genetic loci may
be detected. Heterozygous samples may also be determined via methods known in the art such
as, for example, nucleic acid sequencing. For example, if a sequencing electropherogram shows
two peaks at a single locus and both peaks are roughly the same size, the sample may be
                                                   13

  characterized as heterozygous. Or, if one peak is smaller than another, but is at least about 25%
  the size of the larger peak, the sample may be characterized as heterozygous. In some
  embodiments, the smaller peak is at least about 15% of the larger peak. In other embodiments,
 the smaller peak is at least about 10% of the larger peak. In other embodiments, the smaller peak
 is at least about 5% of the larger peak. In other embodiments, a minimal amount of the smaller
 peak is detected.
  100331    As used herein, "homozygous" refers to having identical alleles at one or more genetic
 loci in homologous chromosome segments. "Homozygous" may also refer to a sample, a cell, a
 cell population or an organism in which the same alleles at one or more genetic loci may be
 detected. Homozygous samples may be determined via methods known in the art, such as, for
 example, nucleic acid sequencing. For example, if a sequencing electropherogram shows a
 single peak at a particular locus, the sample may be termed "homozygous" with respect to that
 locus.
 10034] The term hemizygouss" refers to a gene or gene segment being present only once in the
 genotype of a cell or an organism because the second allele is deleted. As used herein
 "hemizygous" may also refer to a sample, a cell, a cell population or an organism in which an
 allele at one or more genetic loci may be detected only once in the genotype.
 [00351     The term "zygosity status" as used herein refers to a sample, a cell population, or an
organism as appearing heterozygous, homozygous, or hemizygous as determined by testing
methods known in the art and described herein. The term "zygosity status of a nucleic acid"
means determining whether the source of nucleic acid appears heterozygous, homozygous, or
hemizygous. The "zygosity status" may refer to differences in a single nucleotide in a sequence.
In some methods, the zygosity status of a sample with respect to a single mutation may be
categorized as homozygous wild-type, heterozygous (i.e., one wild-type allele and one mutant
allele), homozygous mutant, or hemizygous (i.e., a single copy of either the wild-type or mutant
allele).
                                                  14

  [00361   As used herein, the te-rn "RTDS" refers to The Rapid Trait Development 5ystemTM
(RTDS) developed by Cibus. RTDS is a site-specific gene modification system that is effective
at making precise changes in a gene sequence without the incorporation of foreign genes or
control sequences.
  [00371   The term "about" as used herein means in quantitative terms plus or minus 10%. For
example, "about 3%" would encompass 2.7-3.3% and "about 10%" would encompass 9-11%.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
 100381    FIGURE 1 shows an amino acid alignment of Arabidopsis acetohydroxyacid synthase
AHAS (SEQ ID NO: 1), Brassica napus AHAS I (SEQ ID NO: 2), and Brassica napus AHAS
III (SEQ ID NOs: 3 and 4). SEQ ID NO: I is the amino acid sequence of the Arabidopsis AHAS
At3g48560 based on the annotated genomic DNA sequence Genbank accession number
NCO03074. SEQ ID NO: 2 is the amino acid sequence of Brassica napus AHAS I from Cibus
elite lines BN-2 and BN- 11. This sequence is identical to the translated product of Genbank
accession Zi 1524. SEQ ID NO: 3 is the amino acid sequence of Brassica napus AHAS III from
Cibus elite line BN-2. This sequence is identical to the translated product of Genbank accession
ZI 1526, excepting a D325E substitution at amino acid 325. SEQ ID NO: 4 is the amino acid
sequence of Brassica napus AHAS III from Cibus elite line BN- 11. This sequence is identical to
the translated product of SEQ ID NO: 3, excepting an E343 at amino acid 343 as in SEQ ID NO:
1.
100391    Figure 2 shows amino acid sequences of translated genes referred to in Table 2. Amino
acids indicated in bold represent the mutation.
100401    Figure 3 shows nucleotide sequences referred to in Table 2. Nucleotides indicated in
bold represent the mutation.
100411    Figure 4 shows results of the spray trial described in Example 4.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
                                                  15

  [00421   Provided are compositions and methods related in part to the successful targeting of
  acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) genes in Brassica using., for example, the Rapid Trait
  Development System ('RTDSTM ) technology developed by Cibus. In combination or alone,
 plants containing any of the mutations disclosed herein can form the basis of new herbicide
 resistant products. Also provided are seeds produced from the mutated plants in which the
 AHAS genes are either homozygous or heterozygous for the mutations. The mutations disclosed
 herein can be in combination with any other mutation known or with mutations discovered in the
 future.
  100431   RTDS is based on altering a targeted gene by utilizing the cell's own gene repair system
 to specifically modify the gene sequence in situ and not insert foreign DNA and gene expression
 control sequences. This procedure effects a precise change in the genetic sequence while the rest
 of the genome is left unaltered. In contrast to conventional transgenic GMOs, there is no
 integration of foreign genetic material, nor is any foreign genetic material left in the plant. The
 changes in the genetic sequence introduced by RTDS are not randomly inserted. Since affected
 genes remain in their native location, no random, uncontrolled or adverse pattern of expression
 occurs.
 [0044]    The RTDS that effects this change is a chemically synthesized oligonucleotide which
 may be composed of both DNA and modified RNA bases as well as other chemical moieties, and
 is designed to hybridize at the targeted gene location to create a mismatched base-pair(s). This
mismatched base-pair acts as a signal to attract the cell's own natural gene repair system to that
 site and correct (replace, insert or delete) the designated nucleotide(s) within the gene. Once the
correction process is complete the RTDS molecule is degraded and the now-modified or repaired
gene is expressed under that gene's normal endogenous control mechanisms.
 [00451    The subject mutations in the AHAS I and III genes were described using the Brassica
napus AHAS genes and proteins (see SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3 and 4), The compositions and methods
also encompass mutant AHAS genes of other species (paralogs). However, due to variations in
the AHAS genes of different species, the number of the amino acid residue to be changed in one
                                                    16

  species may be different in another species. Nevertheless, the analogous position is readily
  identified by one of skill in the art by sequence homology. For example, FIGURE 1 shows the
  aligned amino acid sequences of the Arabidopsis AHAS (SEQ ID NO: 1) and Brassicanapus
  AIAS I (SEQ ID NO:2) and AHAS III (SEQ ID NO:3 and SEQ ID NO: 4) paralogs. Thus,
  analogous positions in these and other paralogs can be identified and mutated.
  [0046]     The compositions and methods relate in part to mutations in an AHAS gene that render
 a plant resistant or tolerant to an herbicide of the AIAS-inhibiting or ALS-inhibiting family of
 herbicides. The compositions and methods also relate to the use of a gene repair oligonucleobase
 to make a desired mutation in the chromosomal or episomal sequences of a plant in the gene
 encoding for an AHAS protein. The mutated protein, which substantially maintains the catalytic
 activity of the wild-type protein, allows for increased resistance or tolerance of the plant to an
 herbicide of the AHAS-inhibiting family, and allows for the substantially normal growth or
 development of the plant, its organs, tissues, or cells as compared to the wild-type plant
 irrespective of the presence or absence of the herbicide. The compositions and methods also
 relate to a non-transgenic plant cell in which an AHAS gene has been mutated, a non-transgenic
 plant regenerated therefrom, as well as a plant resulting from a cross using a regenerated non
 transgenic plant to a plant having a mutation in a different AHAS gene or to a plant having a
 mutated EPSPS gene, for example.
 100471     Imidazolinones are among the five chemical families of AHAS-inhibiting herbicides.
The other four families are sulfonylureas, triazolopyrimidines, pyrimidinylthiobenzoates and
sulfonylamino-carbonyltriazolinones (Tan et al., 2005).
 100481    Also provided is a transgenic or non-transgenic plant or plant cell having one or more
mutations in the AHAS gene, for example, such as disclosed herein. In certain embodiments, the
plant or plant cell having one or more mutations in the AHAS gene has increased resistance or
tolerance to a member of the AHAS-inhibiting. In certain embodiments, the plant or plant cell
having one or more mutations in the AHAS gene may exhibit substantially normal growth or
development of the plant, its organs, tissues or cells, as compared to the corresponding wild-type
                                                    17

 plant or cell. In particular aspects and embodiments provided are non-transgenic plants having a
 mutation in an AHAS gene, for example, such as disclosed herein, which in certain embodiments
 has increased resistance or tolerance to a member of the AHAS-inhibiting herbicide family and
 may exhibit substantially normal growth or development of the plant, its organs, tissues or cells,
 as compared to the corresponding wild-type plant or cell, i.e., in the presence of one or more
 herbicide such as for example, an imidazolinone and/or sulfonyl urea, the mutated AHAS protein
 has substantially the same catalytic activity as compared to the wild-type AHAS protein.
 10049]     Further provided are methods for producing a plant having a mutated AHAS gene, for
 example, having one or more mutations as described herein; preferably the plant substantially
 maintains the catalytic activity of the wild-type protein irrespective of the presence or absence of
 a relevant herbicide. In certain embodiments, the methods include introducing into a plant cell a
 gene repair oligonucleobase with one or more targeted mutations in the AHAS gene (for
 example, such as disclosed herein) and identifying a cell, seed, or plant having a mutated AHAS
 gene.
 100501     In various embodiments, plants as disclosed herein can be of any species of
 dicotyledonous, monocotyledonous or gymnospermous plant, including any woody plant species
 that grows as a tree or shrub, any herbaceous species, or any species that produces edible fruits,
 seeds or vegetables, or any species that produces colorful or aromatic flowers. For example, the
plant may be selected from a species of plant from the group consisting of canola, sunflower,
tobacco, sugar beet, cotton, maize, wheat, barley, rice, sorghum, tomato, mango, peach, apple,
pear, strawberry, banana, melon, potato, carrot, lettuce, onion, soya spp, sugar cane, pea, field
beans, poplar, grape, citrus, alfalfa, rye, oats, turf and forage grasses, flax, oilseed rape,
cucumber, morning glory, balsam, pepper, eggplant, marigold, lotus, cabbage, daisy, carnation,
tulip, iris, lily, and nut producing plants insofar as they are not already specifically mentioned.
10051]     The gene repair oligonucleobase can be introduced into a plant cell using any method
commonly used in the art, including but not limited to, microcarriers (biolistic delivery),
microfibers, polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated uptake, electroporation, and microinjection.
                                                    18

  [00521   Also provided are methods and compositions related to the culture of cells mutated
  according to methods as disclosed herein in order to obtain a plant that produces seeds,
 henceforth a "fertile plant", and the production of seeds and additional plants from such a fertile
 plant.
  100531   Also provided are methods of selectively controlling weeds in a field, the field
 comprising plants with the disclosed AHAS gene alterations and weeds, the method comprising
 application to the field of an herbicide to which the plants have been rendered resistant.
  100541   Also provided are mutations in the AHAS gene that confer resistance or tolerance to a
 member of the relevant herbicide to a plant or wherein the mutated AHAS gene has substantially
 the same enzymatic activity as compared to wild-type AHAS.
 Gene Repair Oligonucleobases
 100551    The methods and compositions disclosed herein can be practiced or made with "gene
 repair oligonucleobases" having the conformations and chemistries as described in detail below.
 The "gene repair oligonucleobases" as contemplated herein have also been described in
 published scientific and patent literature using other names including "recombinagenic
 oligonucleobases;" "RNA/DNA chimeric oligonucleotides;" "chimeric oligonucleotides;"
 "mixed duplex oligonucleotides" (MDONs); "RNA DNA oligonucleotides (RDOs);" "gene
targeting oligonucleotides;" "genoplasts;" "single stranded modified oligonucleotides;" "Single
stranded oligodeoxynucleotide mutational vectors" (SSOMVs); "duplex mutational vectors;" and
"heteroduplex mutational vectors."
10056]     Oligonucleobases having the conformations and chemistries described in U.S. Pat. No.
5,565,350 by Kmiec (Kmiec I) and U.S. Pat. No. 5,731,181 by Kmiec (Kmiec II), hereby
incorporated by reference, are suitable for use as "gene repair oligonucleobases" of the
invention. The gene repair oligonucleobases in Kmiec I and/or Kmiec II contain two
complementary strands, one of which contains at least one segment of RNA-type nucleotides (an
"RNA segment") that are base paired to DNA-type nucleotides of the other strand.
                                                   19

  [0057]    Kmiec II discloses that purine and pyrimidine base-containing non-nucleotides can be
  substituted for nucleotides. Additional gene repair molecules that can be used for the present
 invention are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,756,325; 5,871,984; 5,760,012; 5,888,983; 5,795,972;
  5,780,296; 5,945,339; 6,004,804; and 6,010,907 and in International Patent No.
 PCT/USOO/23457; and in International Patent Publication Nos. WO 98/49350; WO 99/'07865;
 WO 99/58723; WO 99/58702; and WO 99/40789, which are each hereby incorporated in their
 entirety.
  10058]    In one embodiment, the gene repair oligonucleobase is a mixed duplex oligonucleotides
 (MDON) in which the RNA-type nucleotides of the mixed duplex oligonucleotide are made
 RNase resistantby replacing the 2'-hydroxyl with a fluoro, chloro or bromo functionality or by
 placing a substituent on the 2T-O. Suitable substituents include the substituents taught by the
 Kmiec II. Alternative substituents include the substituents taught by U.S. Pat. No. 5,334,711
 (Sproat) and the substituents taught by patent publications EP 629 387 and EP 679 657
 (collectively, the Martin Applications), which are hereby incorporated by reference. As used
herein, a 2'-fluoro, chloro or bromo derivative of a ribonucleotide or a ribonucleotide having a 2'
 OH substituted with a substituent described in the Martin Applications or Sproat is termed a "2'
 Substituted Ribonucleotide." As used herein the term "RNA-type nucleotide" means a 2'
hydroxyl or 2'-Substituted Nucleotide that is linked to other nucleotides of a mixed duplex
oligonucleotide by an unsubstituted phosphodiester linkage or any of the non-natural linkages
taught by Kmiec I or Kmiec II. As used herein the term "deoxyribo-type nucleotide" means a
nucleotide having a 2'-1,    which can be linked to other nucleotides of a gene repair
oligonucleobase by an unsubstituted phosphodiester linkage or any of the non-natural linkages
taught by Kmiec I or Kmiec II.
[0059]     In a particular embodiment of the present invention, the gene repair oligonucleobase is
a mixed duplex oligonucleotides (MDON) that is linked solely by unsubstituted phosphodiester
bonds. In alternative embodiments, the linkage is by substituted phosphodiesters, phosphodiester
derivatives and non-phosphorus-based linkages as taught by Kmiec II. In yet another
                                                  20

  embodiment, each RNA-type nucleotide in the mixed duplex oligonucleotide is a 2-Substituted
  Nucleotide. Particular preferred embodiments of 2'-Substituted Ribonucleotides are 2'-fluoro, 2'
  methoxy, 2'-propyloxy, 2'-allyloxy, 2'-hydroxylethyloxy, 2'-methoxyethyloxy, 2'
  fluoropropyloxy and 2'-trifluoropropyloxy substituted ribonucleotides. More preferred
  embodiments of 2'-Substituted Ribonucleotides are 2'-fluoro, 2'-methoxy, 2'-methoxyethyloxy,
  and 2'-allyloxy substituted nucleotides. In another embodiment the mixed duplex
  oligonucleotide is linked by unsubstituted phosphodiester bonds.
  [00601    Although mixed duplex oligonucleotides (MDONs) having only a single type of 2'
  substituted RNA-type nucleotide are more conveniently synthesized, the methods of the
  invention can be practiced with mixed duplex oligonucleotides having two or more types of
  RNA-type nucleotides. The function of an RNA segment may not be affected by an interruption
  caused by the introduction of a deoxynucleotide between two RNA-type trinucleotides,
  accordingly, the term RNA segment encompasses terms such as "interrupted RNA segment." An
 uninterrupted RNA segment is termed a contiguous RNA segment. In an alternative
 embodiment an RNA segment can contain alternating RNase-resistant and unsubstituted 2'-OH
 nucleotides. The mixed duplex oligonucleotides preferably have fewer than 100 nucleotides and
 more preferably fewer than 85 nucleotides, but more than 50 nucleotides. The first and second
 strands are Watson-Crick base paired. In one embodiment the strands of the mixed duplex
 oligonucleotide are covalently bonded by a linker, such as a single stranded hexa, penta or
 tetranucleotide so that the first and second strands are segments of a single oligonucleotide chain
having a single 3' and a single 5' end. The 3' and 5' ends can be protected by the addition of a
 "hairpin cap" whereby the 3' and 5' terminal nucleotides are Watson-Crick paired to adjacent
nucleotides. A second hairpin cap can, additionally, be placed at the junction between the first
and second strands distant from the 3' and 5' ends, so that the Watson-Crick pairing between the
first and second strands is stabilized.
10061]     The first and second strands contain two regions that are homologous with two
fragments of the target gene, i.e., have the same sequence as the target gene. A homologous
                                                   21

 region contains the nucleotides of an RNA segment and may contain one or more DNA-type
 nucleotides of connecting DNA segment and may also contain DNA-type nucleotides that are
 not within the intervening DNA segment. The two regions of homology are separated by, and
 each is adjacent to, a region having a sequence that differs from the sequence of the target gene,
 termed a "heterologous region." The heterologous region can contain one, two or three
 mismatched nucleotides. The mismatched nucleotides can be contiguous or alternatively can be
 separated by one or two nucleotides that are homologous with the target gene. Alternatively, the
heterologous region can also contain an insertion or one, two, three or of five or fewer
nucleotides. Alternatively, the sequence of the mixed duplex oligonucleotide may differ from
the sequence of the target gene only by the deletion of one, two, three, or five or fewer
nucleotides from the mixed duplex oligonucleotide. The length and position of the heterologous
region is, in this case, deemed to be the length of the deletion, even though no nucleotides of the
mixed duplex oligonucleotide are within the heterologous region. The distance between the
fragments of the target gene that are complementary to the two homologous regions is identical
to the length of the heterologous region where a substitution or substitutions is intended. When
the heterologous region contains an insertion, the homologous regions are thereby separated in
the mixed duplex oligonucleotide farther than their complementary homologous fragments are in
the gene, and the converse is applicable when the heterologous region encodes a deletion.
[00621    The RNA segments of the mixed duplex oligonucleotides are each a part of a
homologous region, i.e., a region that is identical in sequence to a fragment of the target gene,
which segments together preferably contain at least 13 RNA-type nucleotides and preferably
from 16 to 25 RNA-type nucleotides or yet more preferably 18-22 RNA-type nucleotides or most
preferably 20 nucleotides. In one embodiment, RNA segments of the homology regions are
separated by and adjacent to, i.e., "connected by" an intervening DNA segment. In one
embodiment, each nucleotide of the heterologous region is a nucleotide of the intervening DNA
segment. An intervening DNA segment that contains the heterologous region of a mixed duplex
oligonucleotide is termed a "mutator segment."
                                                  22

 [00631    In another embodiment of the present invention, the gene repair oligonucleobase
 (GRON) is a single stranded oligodeoxynucleotide mutational vector (SSOMV), which is
 disclosed in International Patent Application PCT/USO0/23457, U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,271,360,
 6,479,292, and 7,060,500 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The sequence of the
 SSOMV is based on the same principles as the mutational vectors described in U.S. Pat. Nos.
 5,756,325; 5,871,984; 5,760,012; 5,888,983; 5,795,972; 5,780,296; 5,945,339; 6,004,804; and
 6,010,907 and in International Publication Nos. WO 98/49350; WO 99/07865; WO 99/58723;
 WO 99/58702; and WO 99/40789. The sequence of the SSOMV contains two regions that are
homologous with the target sequence separated by a region that contains the desired genetic
alteration termed the mutator region. The mutator region can have a sequence that is the same
length as the sequence that separates the homologous regions in the target sequence, but having a
different sequence. Such a mutator region can cause a substitution. Alternatively, the
homologous regions in the SSOMV can be contiguous to each other, while the regions in the
target gene having the same sequence are separated by one, two or more nucleotides. Such an
SSOMV causes a deletion from the target gene of the nucleotides that are absent from the
SSOMV. Lastly, the sequence of the target gene that is identical to the homologous regions may
be adjacent in the target gene but separated by one, two, or more nucleotides in the sequence of
the SSOMV. Such an SSOMV causes an insertion in the sequence of the target gene.
[00641    The nucleotides of the SSOMV are deoxyribonucleotides that are linked by unmodified
phosphodiester bonds except that the 3' terminal and/or 5' terminal internucleotide linkage or
alternatively the two 3' terminal and/or 5' terminal internucleotide linkages can be a
phosphorothioate or phosphoamidate. As used herein an internucleotide linkage is the linkage
between nucleotides of the SSOMV and does not include the linkage between the 3' end
nucleotide or 5' end nucleotide and a blocking substituent. In a specific embodiment the length
of the SSOMV is between 21 and 55 deoxynucleotides and the lengths of the homology regions
are, accordingly, a total length of at least 20 deoxynucleotides and at least two homology regions
should each have lengths of at least 8 deoxynucleotides.
                                                   23

  [00651     The SSOMV can be designed to be complementary to either the coding or the non
  coding strand of the target gene. When the desired mutation is a substitution of a single base, it
  is preferred that both the mutator nucleotide and the targeted nucleotide be a pyrimidine. To the
 extent that is consistent with achieving the desired functional result, it is preferred that both the
 mutator nucleotide and the targeted nucleotide in the complementary strand be pyrimidines.
 Particularly preferred are SSOMVs that encode transversion mutations, i.e., a C or T mutator
 nucleotide is mismatched, respectively, with a C or T nucleotide in the complementary strand.
  [0066]     In addition to the oligodeoxynucleotide, the SSOMV can contain a 5' blocking
 substituent that is attached to the 5' terminal carbons through a linker. The chemistry of the
 linker is not critical other than its length, which should preferably be at least 6 atoms long and
 that the linker should be flexible. A variety of non-toxic substituents such as biotin, cholesterol
 or other steroids or a non-intercalating cationic fluorescent dye can be used. Particularly
 preferred reagents to make SSOMVs are the reagents sold as Cy3TM and Cy5TM by Glen
 Research, Sterling Va. (now GE Healthcare), which are blocked phosphoroamidites that upon
 incorporation into an oligonucleotide yield 3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl N,N'-isopropyl substituted
 indomonocarbocyanine and indodicarbocyanine dyes, respectively. Cy3 is particularly preferred.
 When the indocarbocyanine is N-oxyalkyl substituted it can be conveniently linked to the 5'
terminal of the oligodeoxynucleotide as a phosphodiester with a 5' terminal phosphate. The
chemistry of the dye linker between the dye and the oligodeoxynucleotide is not critical and is
chosen for synthetic convenience. When the commercially available Cy3 phosphoramidite is
used as directed, the resulting 5' modification consists of a blocking substituent and linker
together which are a N-hydroxypropyl, N'-phosphatidylpropyl 3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl
indomonocarbocyanine.
[00671      In a preferred embodiment the indocarbocyanine dye is tetra substituted at the 3 and 3'
positions of the indole rings. Without limitations as to theory these substitutions prevent the dye
from being an intercalating dye. The identity of the substituents at these positions is not critical.
                                                    24

 The SSOMV can in addition have a 3' blocking substituent. Again the chemistry of the 3'
 blocking substituent is not critical.
  100681    The mutations herein described might also be obtained by mutagenesis (random,
 somatic or directed) and other DNA editing or recombination technologies including, but not
 limited to, gene targeting using site-specific homologous recombination by zinc finger nucleases.
                      Delivery of Gene Repair Oligonucleobases into Plant Cells
 100691     Any commonly known method used to transform a plant cell can be used for delivering
 the gene repair oligonucleobases. Illustrative methods are listed below.
 Microcarriers and Microfibers
 [00701    The use of metallic microcarriers (microspheres) for introducing large fragments of
 DNA into plant cells having cellulose cell walls by projectile penetration is well known to those
 skilled in the relevant art (henceforth biolistic delivery). U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,945,050; 5,100,792
 and 5,204,253 describe general techniques for selecting microcarriers and devices for projecting
 them.
 [00711    Specific conditions for using microcarriers in the methods of the present invention are
 described in International Publication WO 99/07865. In an illustrative technique, ice cold
 microcarriers (60 mg/mL), mixed duplex oligonucleotide (60 mg/mL) 2.5 M CaCI 2 and 0.1 M
 spermidine are added in that order; the mixture gently agitated, e.g., by vortexing, for 10 minutes
 and then left at room temperature for 10 minutes, whereupon the microcarriers are diluted in 5
volumes of ethanol, centrifuged and resuspended in 100% ethanol. Good results can be obtained
with a concentration in the adhering solution of 8-10 ptg/pL microcarriers, 14-17 jig/mL mixed
duplex oligonucleotide, 1.1-1.4 M CaCl 2 and 18-22 mM spermidine. Optimal results were
observed under the conditions of 8 pig/pL microcarriers, 16.5 pg/mL mixed duplex
oligonucleotide, 1.3 M CaCl 2 and 21 mM spermidine.
100721     Gene repair oligonucleobases can also be introduced into plant cells for the practice of
the present invention using microfibers to penetrate the cell wall and cell membrane. U.S. Pat.
                                                    25

 No. 5,302,523 to Coffee et a[. describes the use of 30.times.0.5 pm and 10.times.0.3 Pm silicon
 carbide fibers to facilitate transformation of suspension maize cultures of Black Mexican Sweet.
 Any mechanical technique that can be used to introduce DNA for transformation of a plant cell
 using microfibers can be used to deliver gene repair oligonucleobases for transmutation.
 [0073]     An illustrative technique for microfiber delivery of a gene repair oligonucleobase is as
 follows: Sterile microfibers (2 pg) are suspended in 150 pL of plant culture medium containing
 about 10 pg of a mixed duplex oligonucleotide. A suspension culture is allowed to settle and
 equal volumes of packed cells and the sterile fiber/nucleotide suspension are vortexed for 10
 minutes and plated. Selective media are applied immediately or with a delay of up to about 120
 i as is appropriate for the particular trait.
 Protoplast Electroporation
 100741    In an alternative embodiment, the gene repair oligonucleobases can be delivered to the
plant cell by electroporation of a protoplast derived from a plant part. The protoplasts are
formed by enzymatic treatment of a plant part, particularly a leaf, according to techniques well
known to those skilled in the art. See, e.g., Gallois et al., 1996, in Methods in Molecular Biology
55:89-107, Humana Press, Totowa, N.J.; Kipp et al., 1999, in Methods in Molecular Biology
 133:213-221, Humana Press, Totowa, N.J. The protoplasts need not be cultured in growth media
prior to electroporation. Illustrative conditions for electroporation are 3.times.10.sup.5
protoplasts in a total volume of 0.3 mL with a concentration of gene repair oligonucleobase of
between 0.6-4 pg/mL.
Protoplast PEG-mediated DNA uptake
10075]     In an alternative embodiment, nucleic acids are taken up by plant protoplasts in the
presence of the membrane-modifying agent polyethylene glycol, according to techniques well
known to those skilled in the art (see, e.g., Gharti-Chhetri et al., 1992; Datta et al., 1992).
Microiniection
                                                   26

 [00761     In an alternative embodiment, the gene repair oligonucleobases can be delivered by
 injecting it with a microcapillary into plant cells or into protoplasts (see, e.g., Miki et al., 1989;
 Schnorf et al., 1991).
 Selection of Herbicide Resistant Plants and Application of Herbicide
 100771     Plants and plant cells can be tested for resistance or tolerance to an herbicide using
 commonly known methods in the art, e.g., by growing the plant or plant cell in the presence of an
 herbicide and measuring the rate of growth as compared to the growth rate in the absence of the
 herbicide.
 10078]      As used herein, substantially nonnal growth of a plant, plant organ, plant tissue or plant
 cell is defined as a growth rate or rate of cell division of the plant, plant organ, plant tissue, or
 plant cell that is at least 35%, at least 50%, at least 60%. or at least 75% of the growth rate or rate
 of cell division in a corresponding plant, plant organ, plant tissue or plant cell expressing the
 wild-type AHAS protein.
 100791    As used herein, substantially nonnal development of a plant, plant organ, plant tissue or
plant cell is defined as the occurrence of one or more development events in the plant, plant
organ, plant tissue or plant cell that are substantially the same as those occurring in a
corresponding plant, plant organ, plant tissue or plant cell expressing the wild-type AHAS
protein.
 100801    In certain embodiments plant organs provided herein include, but are not limited to,
leaves, stems, roots, vegetative buds, floral buds, meristems, embryos, cotyledons, endospenn,
sepals, petals, pistils, carpels, stamens, anthers, microspores, pollen, pollen tubes, ovules, ovaries
and fruits, or sections, slices or discs taken therefrom. Plant tissues include, but are not limited
to, callus tissues, ground tissues, vascular tissues, storage tissues, meristematic tissues, leaf
tissues, shoot tissues, root tissues, gall tissues, plant tumor tissues, and reproductive tissues.
Plant cells include, but are not limited to, isolated cells with cell walls, variously sized
aggregates thereof, and protoplasts.
                                                     27

  [00811    Plants are substantially "tolerant" to a relevant herbicide when they are subjected to it
  and provide a dose/response curve which is shifted to the right when compared with that
  provided by similarly subjected non-tolerant like plant. Such dose/response curves have "dose"
 plotted on the X-axis and "percentage kill", "herbicidal effect", etc., plotted on the y-axis.
  Tolerant plants will require more herbicide than non-tolerant like plants in order to produce a
  given herbicidal effect. Plants that are substantially "resistant" to the herbicide exhibit few, if
  any, necrotic, lytic, chlorotic or other lesions, when subjected to herbicide at concentrations and
 rates which are typically employed by the agrochemical community to kill weeds in the field.
 Plants which are resistant to an herbicide are also tolerant of the herbicide.
                                               EXAMPLES
  [0082]    Following are examples, which illustrate procedures for practicing the invention.
 These examples should not be construed as limiting. All percentages are by weight and all
 solvent mixture proportions are by volume unless otherwise noted.
 Example 1: Preparation of Herbicide-Resistant BrassicaSamples
 100831    Unless otherwise specified, as used herein, numbering of the gene(s) is based on the
 amino acid sequence of the Arabidopsis acetolactate synthase (ALS) or acetohydroxyacid
 synthase (AHAS) At3g48560 (SEQ ID NO:1). In laboratory notebook references prior to
 October 2005, the S653 position (based on the Arabidopsis amino acid sequence) is referred to as
 S621 based on the corn amino acid sequences ZmAHAS 108 and ZmAHAS 109 (Fang et al.,
 1992).
 [00841    One goal was to make the imazethapyr (Imi) resistant amino acid substitution S653N in
either or both BnAHAS I and III of spring Canola (Brassicanapus, Spring Oilseed Rape
designated BN-2) and Winter Oilseed Rape (WOSR, also Brassicanapus - designated BN-l 1).
100851     In order to amplify the target regions of BnAHAS I and III from Brassica napus
(initially elite Canola line BN-2), the oligo pair BnALS 1 and BnALS2 was designed (SEQ ID
NOs: 9 and 10). Since BnAHAS I and III do not contain introns, BnALSI and BnALS2 amplify
                                                    28

 the target regions of 284 bp from both genomic DNA and cDNA flanking the S653 site. This
 primer pair was also designed to enable amplification of the ALS target region from Arabidopsis.
 The primers were received and resuspended in sterile water.
 [00861    Initially the BnALSI/BnALS2 primer pair was used to PCR amplify the BnAHAS I and
 III C-terminal target regions from BN-2. Later, the ALS target regions were amplified from
 additional BN-2 samples and cloned into pGEM-T easy. Cloned inserts from 12 colonies from
 each of 3 genomic DNA and cDNA samples grown in overnight cultures were plasmid prepped
 and sequenced, confirming the target sequence. Glycerol stocks were prepared for BN-2 ALS
2c-21 as the BnAHAS I representative and BN-2 ALS YBI0-2g-14 as the BnAHAS III
representative for these 284 bp target regions.
 [00871   The genomic and cDNA target region BnALS sequences from line BN-2 were analyzed
and PCR errors recorded. Based on the sequence of BnAHAS I and III from BN-2 a single
GRON (Gene Repair Oligonucleotide) BnALS1621/C/41/5'Cy3/3'idC (SEQ ID NO: 5) was
designed to make a serine to asparagine amino acid substitution (AGT -> AAT) at position 653
(See Table 1). The initial syntheses were resuspended and their concentrations determined. The
resuspended oligos were stored frozen at -70"C. The non-coding version of this GRON was
called BnALS1621/NC/41/5'Cy3/3'idC (SEQ ID NO: 6). At a later date, the BnALSI621/NC
was compared with all Genbank sequences where the only sequences with >16 nucleotides of 41
hybridizing were BnAHAS I and III and where the oligo had the single mismatch G->A designed
to introduce the S653N amino acid substitution.
                                 TABLE 1. GRON SEQUENCES
GRON                                  Sequence
BnALS 1621 /C/41/5'Cy3/3'idC          VTGTGTTACCGATGATCCCAAATGGTGGCACTTTC
                                      AAAGATGH (SEQ ID NO: 5)
BnALS1621/NC/41/5'Cy3/3'idC           VCATCTTTGAAAGTGCCACCATTTGGGATCATCGG
                                      TAACACAH (SEQ ID NO: 6)
                                                29

  BnALS1574/C/41/5'Cy3/3'idC              VCTTGGGATGGTCATGCAATTGGAAGATCGGTTCT
                                          ACAAAGCH (SEQ ID NO: 7)
  BnALS1574/NC/41/5 'Cy3/3'idC            VGCTTTGTAGAACCGATCTTCCAATTGCATGACCA
                                         TCCCAAGH (SEQ ID NO: 8)
 The converting base is shown in bold. V=CY3; H=3'DMT dC CPG
  10088]    BnALS target regions, from a Cibus elite Winter Oil Seed Rape (WOSR) line BN-l 1,
 were amplified from genomic DNA and cDNA of single plants known to represent line BN-1 1.
 The BN-11 BnALS sequences were analyzed and PCR errors recorded.
 [0089]     In addition to characterizing the BnALS target regions from BN-2 and BN-11, the same
 target regions were also characterized in the commercial variety Clearfield Canola (BN- 15). The
 Clearfield BnAHAS sequences were analyzed and PCR errors recorded showing the expected
 amino acid changes, S653N (AGT -> AAT) in BnAHAS I and W574L (TGG -> TTG) in
 BnAHAS III. Ultimately full coding sequences for BnAHAS I and III were amplified using
 BnALS3/BnALSOR2 (SEQ ID NOs: II and 12) and BnALS3/BnALSOR3 (SEQ ID NOs: 11
 and 13) respectively, cloned and sequenced from lines BN-2, BN- 11 and BN-15 to serve as
 reference sequences for comparative purposes
 100901    Imi resistant BN-2 (Canola) callus samples BnALS1621N-44 to 53, arising from
various treatments, were extracted using the Edwards et at (1991) method. Genomic DNA from
this material was screened using an allele specific PCR (AS-PCR) mix (MM#23 composed of
oligos BnALSOF1, BnALSOR2, BnALSOR3 and BnALSIRIA) (SEQ ID NOs: 14, 12, 13, and
 15, respectively) to specifically detect the S653N change and allele specific PCR mix (MM#29
composed of oligos BnALSOF2, BnALSOR4 and BnALSIFIT) (SEQ ID NOs: 16, 17, and 18,
respectively) to specifically detect the W574L change in either BnAHAS I or III. These initial
AS-PCR results were inconclusive, therefore, additional samples BnALS 162 1N-54 to 58 for
most of samples BnALS 1621 N-44 to 53 were received, and extracted using the Edwards et at.
(1991) method with additional purification steps to obtain more pure genomic DNA.
                                                  30

  [00911   At this point, samples BnALS1621N-54 to 58 were amplified with a BnALSOF2,
 BnALSOR2 and BnALSOR3 primer combination, and a small amount of amplified product was
 obtained. These products were cloned into pGEM-T easy and 12 white colonies per line setup as
 overnight cultures, plasmid prepped (using the Qiagen plasmid miniprep kit), and sequenced
 using BigDye 3.1 sequencing chemistry.
  10092]   Preliminary sequence analysis determined that BnALS1621N-55-13 had an S653N
 mutation in BnAHAS III (AGT -> AAT) and two other clones from this line, BnALS1621N-55
  15 and 19, were wildtype in BnAHAS III. Full sequence analysis was recorded. To confirm that
 this single positive did not result from a PCR error, an additional 38 colonies from this line were
 screened by AS-PCR. The strongest 8 positives from this AS-PCR screen BnALS1621N-55-1 to
 8 were setup as overnight cultures, and plasmid DNA was isolated and sequenced. Seven of the
 8 positive colonies, BnALSI 621N-55-2 to 8 by AS-PCR were positive by sequencing for the
 S653N mutation in BnAHAS III; the other BnALS1621N-55-1 was a wildtype BnAHAS I
 sequence. Together these results indicated that line BnALS1621N-55 is heterozygous for the
 S653N mutation in BnAHAS III.
 [00931    Sample BnALS1621N-55 was a parallel callus sample from the same initial Imi
resistant callus as BnALS1621N-49. Genomic DNA from these samples was amplified with the
BnALSOF2, BnALSOR2 and BnALSOR3 primer combination, and the fragments cloned into
pGEM-T easy and transfonned. MM#23 was used to screen 38 white colonies for the S653N
mutation, with 4 positive colonies being identified (BnALS1621N-49-9 to 12). These colonies
were sequenced. Three of the four colonies (BnALS1621N-49-9, 10 and 12) had the S653N
mutation in BnAHAS III.
100941    A similar method of target region cloning followed by AS-PCR with sequence
confirmation was used to identify other lines with the S653N polymorphism. Among these was
line BnALS-97. BnALS-97 was regenerated into a plant and allowed to set seed. Since this line
was a prototype (as a plant), the full coding sequences of both BnAHAS I and III were cloned
and sequenced. In this line, the only polymorphism compared to the BN-2 wildtype sequence
                                                 31

 was the AGT -> AAT codon change which results in the S653N amino acid substitution in
 BnAHAS 111.
 100951    Preliminary sequence analysis of random cloned BnALSOF2/BnALSOR2 and
 BnALSOF2/BnALSOR3 amplicons from line BnALS162 IN-57 indicated that both clones
 BnALS1621N-57-43 and 46 had the W574L mutation (TGG -> TTG) in BnAHAS 1. Full
 sequence analysis was recorded, and indicated line 57 is heterozygous, since clones 38 and 41
were W574. Therefore, the BnALSOF2, BnALSOR2 and BnALSOR3 primer combination was
used to amplify this fragment from BnALS1621N-57 and BnALS1621N-45, a parallel callus
sample from the same initial Imi resistant callus as BnALS1621N-57, ligated into pGEM-T easy,
transformed and plated with blue/white selection.
 [00961    MM#29 was used to screen 19 white colonies for the W574L from each of the plates for
BnALS162IN-57 and BnALS1621N-45, with 4 positive colonies for each (BnALS1621N-45-1,
2,9 and 18, and BnALS1621N-57-1, 7, 13 and 16) being plasmid prepped and sequenced.
Sequence analysis showed that all 8 colonies had the W574L mutation in BnAHAS 1. The
annealing temperature for MM#29 was optimized, and an additional 19 colonies screened using
these new conditions. Three positive colonies (BnALS 162 1N-57-17, 18 and 19) were plasmid
prepped and sequenced.
100971    Additional Imi resistant Canola samples BnALS-68 to 91 were received and genomic
DNA extracted using the Edwards et al. (1991) method. From each sample, the BnALSOF2,
BnALSOR2 and BnALSOR3 primer combinations were used to amplify fragments of BnAHAS
I and III and clone them into pGEM-T easy.
[00981    Using MM#23 in AS-PCR reactions to detect the S653N mutation, 12 colonies per line
were screened, and results showed 2 positives from line BnALS-81 (BnALS-81-203 and 208)
and 4 from BnALS-76 (BnALS-76-153, 154, 156 and 162) to contain the S653N mutation in
BnAHAS Ill by sequencing. Full sequence analysis was recorded. By AS-PCR screening with
MM#23, both PCR-amplified target regions or of bacterial colonies with single cloned inserts,
                                                32

 line BnALS-159 (molecular biology sample 102; colony 655) was identified as having the
 S653N mutation in BnAHAS I, Cibus' initial S653N event in this gene.
 [0099]   Finally, in line BnALS-83 (molecular biology sample 91), wildtype (colony 408) and
 mutant (colonies 403, 405 and 406) were identified to indicate this line was heterozygous for the
 S653T mutation (AGT -> ACT) in BnAHAS I. As plants, line BnALS-83 was confirmed to be
 heterozygous in BnAHAS I for the S653T mutation. Further screening with MM#23 (S653N)
 and MM#29 (W574L) of new Imi resistance BN-2 Canola lines BnALS-76 and BnA LS-123 was
performed. Since the aforementioned expected mutations were not found in these samples, 12
 BnALSOF2/OR2/3 were cloned and sequenced. All 7 clones of BnAHAS III for BnALS-123
(Colonies 5, 17-19, 21, 22, 26 and 28) were positive for the S653T mutation. However, seed
from the RI plants was genotyped as heterozygous.
 [01001   Additionally, N-terminal PCR fragments of each of BnAHAS I and III were cloned and
sequenced for BnALS-58, 68 and 69 using BnALS3/BnALS8 (SEQ ID NOs: 11 and 19
respectively) and BnALS3/BnALS9 (SEQ ID NOs: 11 and 20, respectively) oligo combinations
respectively. A new tissue sample for BnALS- 96 was obtained and N-terminal PCR fragments
of BnAHAS I and III were cloned and sequenced to show line BnALS-96 had an A205V
mutation (GCC -> GTC) in BnAHAS 1. All four clones of the full length coding sequence
BnALS3/OR2 amplicon from plant material derived from callus line BnALS-68 had an A205V
change (GCG -> GTG) in BnAHAS 111, identical to the change in BnALS-69.
101011   Lines determined to have a mutation, the experiment they were derived from and the
treatment provided are summarized in Table 2. Line BnALS-159 died as a callus line and did
not regenerate shoots. Table 3 shows exemplary oligos used in the experiments disclosed herein.
   TABLE 2. MUTATIONS IN IMI RESISTANT TISSUE SAMPLES OF BN CANOLA.
Line (CS#)               Mutation            SNP                              Gene      Line
BnALS-96                 A205V               GCC -    GTC                     I         BN2
                                               33

 BnALS-68      A20 5V                GCG - GTG                     III {BN2
 BnALS-69      A205V                 GCG   -  GTG                  III   BN2
 BnALS-58      A205D                 GCC - GAC                           BN
 BnALS-63      W574C                 TGG -TGT                      III  BN2
 BnALS-57      W5 74L             - TGG - TTG        -I                 BN2
BnALS-67      W574L                 TGG   -~ TTG                  I     BN2
BN02-204-AOI  W574L;R577W           TGG   -  TTG: CGG      -*TGG  III   BN2
BN02-224-CO I W574L (HET)           TGG   -  TTG                  III   BN2
BN02-224-BO 1 W574M (HET)           TGG -    ATG                  III   BN2
BnALS-76      W574S                 TGG   -  TCG                  III   BN2
BnALS-159*    S653N                 AG    -~ AAT                  I     BN2
BnALS-55      S653N                 AGT   -~ AAT                  TTI   BN2
BnALS-97      S653N                 AGT   -~ AAT                  III   BN2
BniALS-61     S653N                 AGT  -~  AAT                  III   B-N2
BriALS-84     S653N                 AGT  -~  AAT                  III   BN2
BriALS-83     S-653T               AGT  -   ACT                 I      BN2
BniALS-123    S653T                 AGT  -   ACT                 III    BN2
BNO2-139-E07  W574C(hiet);S653N     TGG -    TGC; AGT    -*AAT   III   BN2
BNO2-139-D05  A205V;S653N           GCG  -   GTG;AGT    -*AAT    III   BN2
BNO2-139-FO8  A205V;S653N     -GCG       -~  GTG;AGT -AAT        III   BN2
BNO2-139-C03  A205V(het);S653N      GCC  -~  GTC;AGT   -~AAT     I;II  BN2
                                      34

 BN02-139-D06    W574C;S653N      TGG -- TGC;AGT -     AAT I;III BN2
 BN02-139-EIO    W574L;S653N      TGG -   TTG;AGT -    AAT I;III BN2
 BN02-139-A13    W574L(het);S653N TGG - TTG;AGT-- AAT      III   BN2
 BN02-139-A12    D376E;S653N      GAC -- GAG;AGT    -  AAT III   BN2
 BN02-139-F09    A122V;S653N      GCT-GTT;AGT -       AAT  I;III BN2
BN02-139-AO1     A205D, S653N     GCG -   GAC;AGT      AAT I;II  BN2
BN02-139-D-04    W574C; S653N     TGG -   TGC;AGT -    AAT I;III BN2
BN02-139-BI I    W574C; S653N     TGG - TGC;AGT   -    AAT 1;III BN2
                      TABLE 3: EXEMPLARY OLIGOS
Name              Length           Oligo Sequence
BnALS1 (SEQ ID    24               ATGCAATGGGAAGATCGGTTCTAC
NO: 9)
BnALS2 (SEQ ID    29               CCATCYCCTTCKGTTATKACATCKTTGAA
NO: 10)
BnALS3 (SEQ ID    20               CTAACCATGGCGGCGGCAAC
NO: 11)
BnALSOR2 (SEQ ID  28               AGTCTGGGAACAAACCAAAAGCAGTACA
NO: 12)
BnALSOR3 (SEQ ID  28               CGTCTGGGAACAACCAAAAGTAGTACAA
NO: 13)
                                   35

 BnALSOF1 (SEQ ID        28                     AGTGACGAAGAAAGAAGAACTCCGAGAA
 NO: 14)
 BnALSIRIA (SEQ          30                     CTGTTATTACATCTTTGAAAGTGCCACAAT
 ID NO: 15)
 BnALSOF2 (SEQ ID        28                     TGACGGTGATGGAAGCTTCATAATGAAC
 NO: 16)
 BnALSOR4 (SEQ ID        28                     GTCCWGGTGTATCCAGCATTGTCTGAAT
 NO: 17)
 BnALSIF1 T (SEQ ID      26                     CAGCATCTTGGGATGGTCATGCAGTT
 NO: 18)
 BnALS8 (SEQ ID          21                     CCCATCAAAGTACTCGCACCG
 NO: 19)
BnALS9 (SEQ ID           21                    CCCATCAACGTACTCGCACCA
NO: 20)
101021    As shoots become available, crosses are being made in all permutations and
combinations. Line BnALS-97 is the reference S653N in BnAHAS III. Line BnALS-57 is the
reference W574L in BnAHAS I. Both BnALS-68 and 69 are being advanced as reference lines
for A205V in BnAHAS III. Line BnALS-83 is the first line that was heterozygous for S653T in
BnAHAS I as callus to also be heterozygous as a plant.
Example 2: Materials and Methods
[01031]  Cell Culture Work Description. Shoots derived both from seeds and from
microspore-derived embryos were propagated under sterile conditions in vitro. Cuttings were
subcultured every 2 - 4 weeks and cultured in petri dishes (25 mm x 90 mm) in a volume of 40
                                               36

 45 mL RS medium (Dovzhenko, 2001). The dishes were sealed with Micropore tape (3M
 Company). Young leaves were used for protoplast isolation.
 101041     Protoplast isolation and purification. About 600 mg of leaf tissue of 2 - 3 week-old
 in vitro shoots were cut into small strips with a scalpel in a petri dish with 5 mL medium B
 (Pelletier et al., 1983), pH adjusted to 5.8. After approximately 1 h, medium B was replaced
 with enzyme solution, consisting of medium B in which 0.5% (w/v) Cellulase YC and 0.75%
 (w/v) Macerozyme R10 (both from Karlan Research Products, Cottonwood, Arizona), 1 g/L
 bovine serum albumin, and 1 g/L 2-morpholinoethanesulfonic acid were dissolved. The enzyme
 solution was vacuum-infiltrated into the leaf tissue, and the dish with leaf pieces in enzyme
 solution was incubated for at 25'C in darkness. Protoplast purification was performed using an
 iodixanol density gradient (adapted from Optiprep Application Sheet Cl 8; Purification of Intact
 Plant Protoplasts; Axis-Shield USA, 10 Commerce Way, Norton, MA 02776). After the density
 gradient centrifugation, the band with purified protoplasts was removed together with about 5
mL W5 medium (Frigerio et al., 1998). The protoplast yield was determined with a
hemocytometer, and the protoplasts were stored for 2 h at 4"C.
 [0105]    Gene Repair Oligonucleotide GRON introduction. The protoplast suspension was
mixed with an equal volume of W5 medium, transferred to a 50 mL centrifuge tube, and
centrifuged for 5 min at the lowest setting of a clinical centrifuge (about 50 x g). The
supernatant was removed and replaced with TM medium (Klaus, 2001), adjusting the protoplast
density to 5 x 10 6/mL. Aliquots of 100 pL containing 5 x 106 protoplasts each were distributed
into 12 mL round bottom centrifuge tubes. GRONs targeted at a mutation in one or both AHAS
genes were then introduced into the protoplasts using a PEG treatment. To introduce the GRONs
into the protoplasts, 12.5 ptg GRON dissolved in 25 pL purified water and 125 PL of a
polyethylene glycol solution (5 g PEG MW 1500, 638 mg mannitol, 207 mg CaNO 3 x 4H 2 0 and
8.75 mL purified water; pH adjusted to about 9.0) was added. After a 30 min incubation on ice,
the protoplast-PEG suspension was washed with W5 medium and resuspended in medium B.
The suspension was kept overnight in a refrigerator at about 4'C.
                                                   37

  [01061     Embedding of protoplasts in calcium alginate. One day after the GRON
  introduction, protoplasts were embedded in calcium alginate. The embedding of protoplasts in
  gel substrates (e.g., agarose, alginate) has been shown to enhance protoplast survival and to
  increase division frequencies of protoplast-derived cells. The method applied was based on that
  described in Dovzhenko (2001).
  101071    Protoplast culture and selection of imazethapyr-resistant calli. The selection of
  imazethapyr-resistant calli was carried out using sequential subcultures of the alginates in media
 according to Pelletier et al. (1983). Selection was started one week after the PEG/GRON
 treatment at a concentration of 0.5 pM imazethapyr. The herbicide did not have an immediate
 effect. Initially, all microcolonies that had formed during the early culture phase without
 imazethapyr continued to grow, but slower than controls without added herbicide. One to two
 weeks after the onset of selection, the colonies slowed down in growth or stopped growing.
 [01081     Before the end of the selection phase in liquid medium, cells and colonies were released
 from the alginate by treating them for 30 - 45 min with culture medium containing 50 mM
 sodium citrate. At the moment of transferring released colonies from liquid to solid medium, the
 majority of colonies were either dead, or consisted of a greenish center, covered with outer layers
 of dead cells. On the solidified selection medium E the majority of microcalli that still contained
 living cells stopped growing and turned brownish. Limited growth of individual calli continued
 occasionally, but all non-resistant calli eventually turned brown and died. Two to three weeks
 after the transfer to solidified selection medium (occasionally earlier), actively growing calli
appeared among a background of brownish cells and microcalli.
[0109]     Regeneration of plants from protoplast-derived, herbicide-tolerant calli with a
confirmed mutation in an AHAS gene. Imi-tolerant calli that had developed on solidified
selection medium and whose DNA upon analysis had shown the presence of a mutation were
transferred to herbicide-free medium E (Pelletier et al., 1983) to accelerate development.
Individual callus lines varied in their growth rates and morphologies. In general, the
development towards shoot regeneration followed these steps:
                                                   38

 Undifferentiated, green callus  -> callus with dark green areas -> development of roots ->
 development of shoot initials -> development of stunted shoots with hyperhydric (vitrified)
 leaves.
 101101    The development of individual callus line was variable, but through continuous
 subculture and multiplication on medium E or modifications of medium E with lower
 concentrations of alpha-naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) eventually many callus lines produced
 shoots.
 10111]    Once shoots with three to four leaves had formed on medium E, they were transferred
 to RS medium (Dovzhenko, 2001). On this medium, over time shoot and leaf tissue developed
 that was morphologically 'normal' (i.e., non-hyperhydric). After in vitro plantlets had produced
 roots, standard protocols were used for the adaptation to greenhouse conditions.
 [01121    Example 4: Herbicide Spray Data
 101131    B. napus plants at the 5-6 leaf stage were sprayed with various AHAS inhibiting
herbicides. B. napus plants sprayed included the parental line BNO2 (or BNI I as required),
BN1 5 (Clearfield, a commercial two gene check) and mutants as detailed below. Herbicides
were sprayed in the presence of 0.25% AU391 surfactant at the following rates:
Imazamox (Beyond"M) 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, 32 and 48 oz active ingredient/Acre (ai/A)
Thifensulfuron 0.028, 0.056, 0.112, 0,168 lb ai/A
Tribenuron 0.015, 0.03, 0.06, 0.12, 0.18 lb ai/A
Nicosulfuron lb 0.06, 0.120, 0.24, 0.36 ai/A
Rimsulfuron 0.015, 0.03, 0.06, 0.12, 0.18 lb ai/A
2:1 weight:weight Thifensulfuron/Tribenuron 0.056, 0.112, 0.224, 0.336 lb ai/A
2.22:1 Thifensulfuron/Nicosulfuron 0.058, 0.116, 0.232 lb ai/A
Primisulfuron 0.035, 0.070, 0.140 lb ai/A
                                                  39

 Flumetsulam0.040, 0.080, 0.16 lb ai/A
 Cloransulam0.039, 0.078, 0.156 lb ai/A
 10114]   Herbicides were applied by foliar spray with control plants being left unsprayed.
 Excepting Imazamox, all AHAS inhibiting herbicide trials were evaluated 14 days post spraying
 using a damage scale of 1-10 with 1 being dead, and 10 being the undamaged unsprayed
 controls. Individual plant lines were scored at each spray rate compared to the performance of
 the controls at that particular rate. Results of the spray trial are presented in Figure 4.
 101151   Chemistry tested: Genotype (# of seedlings for all rates)
 Thifensulfuron: BN2 (6), BN15 (6), BN15xBnALS-57 (18)
Tribenuron: BN2 (6), BN15 (6), BN15xBnALS-57 (18), 63 (9)
Nicosulfuron: BN2 (6), BN15 (6), BN15xBnALS-57 (18)
THI / TRI: BN2 (6), BN15 (6), BN15xBnALS-57 (18)
Rimsulfuron: BN2 (6), BN15 (6), BN15xBnALS-57 (18), 63 (9)
THI /Nic: BN2 (18), 63 (9), BN15xBnALS-57 (36), BN15 (18)
Primisulfuron: BN2 (9), 63 (9), BN15 (9), BN15xBnALS-57 (18)
Flumetsulam: BN2 (9), 63 (9), BN15 (9), BNI5xBnALS-57 (18)
Cloransulam: BN2 (9), 63 (9), BN15 (9), BN15xBnALS-57 (18)
[0116]     Trials with Imazamox were evaluated as follows:
 1Od score for: 8, 16, 32, and 48 oz/A of BnALS-83xBnALS-123, BnA LS-96xBnALS-123,
BnALS-97xBnALS-57, BN15xBnALS-57, BN2, BN15, BnALS-97xBN15
17d score for: 4 and 12 oz/A of BnALS-97xBnALS-57, BNI5xBnALS-97, BN2
28d score for: 2, 4, 6, 8 oz/A for all the single factor mutations.
Imazamox:
                                                    40

 2 oz/A: BN2 (18), BnALS-123 (9), BnALS-96 (9), BnALS-97 (18), BnALS-83 (6), BnALS-76
 (18), BnALS-58 (9), BnALS-57 (12)
 4 oz/A: BN2 (18), BnALS-123 (9), BnALS-96 (9), BnALS-97 (18), BnALS-83 (9), BnALS-76
 (18), BnALS-58 (9), BnALS-57 (12), BnALS-97xBN15 (15), BnALS-97xBnALS-57 (14)
 6 oz/A: BN2 (9), BnALS-123 (9), BnALS-96 (12), BnALS-97 (9), BnALS-83 (12), BnALS-76
 (9), BnALS-57 (12)
 8 oz/A: BnALS-123 (9), BnALS-96 (12), BnALS-83 (12), BnALS-83xBnALS-123 (18),
 BnALS-96xBnALS-123 (18), BN2 (18), BN15 (18), BN15xBnALS-57 (15), BnALS
 97xBnALS-57 (18), BNI5xBnALS-97 (18)
 12 oz/A: BnALS-97xBN15 (15), BnALS-97xBnALS-57 (14), BN2 (12)
 16 oz/A: BnALS-83xBnALS-123 (18), BnALS-96xBnALS-123 (18), BN2 (15), BNI5 (18),
 BN15xBnALS-57 (18), BnALS-97xBnALS-57 (18), BN15xBnALS-97 (18)
 32 oz/A: BnALS-83xBnALS-123 (18), BnALS-96xBnALS-123 (18), BN2 (13), BNI5 (18),
 BN15xBnALS-57 (18), BnALS-97xBnALS-57 (18), BN15xBnALS-97 (18)
 48 oz/A: BnALS-83xBnALS-123 (18), BnALS-96xBnALS-123 (18), BN2 (6), BNI5 (18),
BN15xBnALS-57 (18), BnALS-97xBnALS-57 (18), BN15xBnALS-97 (18)
                                        REFERENCES
Datta SK, Datta K, Soltanifar N, Donn G, Potrykus I (1992) Herbicide-resistant Indica rice plants
from IRRI breeding line IR72 after PEG-mediated transformation of protoplasts. Plant Molec.
Biol. 20:619-629
Dovzhenko A (2001) Towards plastid transformation in rapeseed (Brassicanapus L.) and
sugarbeet (Beta vulgaris L.). PhD Dissertation, LMU Munich, Faculty of Biology
Edwards K, Johnstone C, Thompson C (1991) A simple and rapid method for the preparation of
plant genomic DNA for PCR analysis. Nucleic Acids Res. 19:1349.
                                                41

 Frigerio L, Vitale A, Lord JM, Ceriotti A, Roberts LM (1998) Free ricin A chain, proricin, and
native toxin have different cellular fates when expressed in tobacco protoplasts. J Biol Chem
273:14194-14199
Fang LY, Gross PR, Chen CH, Lillis M (1992) Sequence of two acetohydroxyacid synthase
genes from Zea mays. Plant Mol Biol. 18(6):1185-7
Gharti-Chhetri GB, Cherdshewasart W, Dewulf J, Jacobs M, Negrutiu I (1992) Polyethylene
glycol-mediated direct gene transfer in Nicotiana spp. Physiol. Plant. 85:345-3 51
Klaus S (2003) Markerfreie transplastome Tabakpflanzen (Marker-free transplastomic tobacco
plants). PhD Dissertation, LMU Munich, Faculty of Biology
Miki B, Huang B, Bird S, Kemble R, Simmonds D, Keller W (1989) A procedure for the
microinjection of plant cells and protoplasts. Meth. Cell Science 12:139-144
Pelletier G, Primard C, Vedel F, Chetrit P, Remy R, Rouselle P, Renard M (1983) Intergeneric
cytoplasm hybridization in Cruciferae by protoplast fusion. Mol. Gen. Genet. 191: 244-250
Schnorf M, Neuhaus-Url G, Galli A, lida S, Potrykus I, Neuhaus G (1991) An improved
approach for transformation of plant cells by microinjection: molecular and genetic analysis.
Transgen. Res. 1:23- 30
Tan S, Evans RR, Dahmer ML, Singh BK, Shaner DL (2005) Imidazolinone-tolerant crops:
history, current status and future. Pest Manag Sci. 61(3):246-57.
                                                42

  [01171    Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terns used herein have the same
 meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
 belongs.
  101181    The inventions illustratively described herein may suitably be practiced in the absence
 of any clement or elements, limitation or limitations, not specifically disclosed herein. Thus, for
 example, the terms "comprising," "including," "containing," etc. shall be read expansively and
 without limitation. Additionally, the terms and expressions employed herein have been used as
 terms of description and not of limitation, and there is no intention in the use of such terms and
 expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof.
 It is recognized that various modifications arc possible within the scope of the invention claimed.
 10119]    Thus, it should be understood that although the present invention has been specifically
 disclosed by preferred embodiments and optional features, modification, improvement, and
 variation of the inventions disclosed may be resorted to by those skilled in the art, and that such
modifications, improvements and variations are considered to be within the scope of this
 invention. The materials, methods, and examples provided here are representative of preferred
embodiments, are exemplary, and are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention.
 10120]    The invention has been described broadly and generically herein. Each of the narrower
species and subgeneric groupings falling within the generic disclosure also form part of the
invention. This includes the generic description of the invention with a proviso or negative
limitation removing any subject matter from the genus, regardless of whether or not the excised
material is specifically recited herein.
[01211     In addition, where features or aspects of the invention are described in terms of
Markush groups, those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is also thereby
described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.
101221     All publications, patent applications, patents, and other references mentioned herein are
expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety, to the same extent as if each were
                                                   43

incorporated by reference individually. In case of conflict, the present specification, including
definitions, will control.
101231    Other embodiments are set forth within the following claims.
                                               44

                                               CLAIMS
What is Claimed is:
1.       An isolated nucleic acid encoding a Brassicaacetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) protein
comprising a mutation at one or more amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected
from the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, R577, and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
2.      The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein said AHAS protein encoded by said nucleic
acid comprises one or more mutations selected from the group consisting of:
        an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
        an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376
        of SEQ ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
       a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
       NO: 1,
       a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
       SEQ ID NO: 1,
       a tryptophan to serine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
       NO: 1,
       an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
       ID NO: 1,
       a serine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
       NO: 1, and
                                                  45

         a serine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1.
 3.      The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the mutation comprises a shrine to
 asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein
 said mutation is not S653N in BrassicaAHAS I gene.
 4.      The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the mutation comprises a shrine to threonine
 substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
 5.      The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the mutation comprises a tryptophan to
 leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein said
 mutation is not W574L in Brassica AHAS III gene.
 6.      The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the mutation comprises an alanine to valine
 substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
 7.      The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the mutation comprises an alanine to
 aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
 8.      The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein said AHAS protein encoded by said nucleic
 acid comprises a mutation selected from the group consisting of the mutations shown in Table 2.
 9.      The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1 or 2, wherein said AlIAS protein encoded by said
nucleic acid comprises two or more mutations.
 10.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 9 wherein said two or more mutations are selected
from the group consisting of the mutations shown in Table 2.
 11.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 9 or 10, wherein said AHAS protein encoded by said
nucleic acid comprises a first mutation at a position corresponding to S653 of SEQ ID NO: I and
a second mutation at one or more amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected from
the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, and R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
                                                   46

12.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 11, wherein said first mutation comprises a shrine to
asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
13.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 11, wherein said first mutation comprises a shrine to
threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
14.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 11, 12, or 13 wherein said second mutation is selected
from the group consisting of:
        an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
        an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376
        of SEQ ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
       NO: 1,
       a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
       SEQ ID NO: 1,
       a tryptophan to serine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
       NO: 1,
       an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
       ID NO: 1,
       a serine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
       NO: 1, and
                                                  47

        a serine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1.
15.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 9 or 10, wherein said AHAS protein encoded by said
nucleic acid comprises a first mutation at a position corresponding to W574 of SEQ ID NO: 1
and a second mutation at a position corresponding to R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
16.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 15, wherein said first mutation comprises a tryptophan
to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
17.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 15 or 16, wherein said second mutation comprises an
arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
18.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, or 17,
wherein said nucleic acid encodes an AHAS protein that is resistant to inhibition by an AHAS
inhibiting herbicide.
19.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 18, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is selected
from the group consisting of herbicides of: imidazolinone, sulfonylurea, triazolopyrimidine,
pyrimidinylthiobenzoate, sulfonylamino-carbonyltriazolinone, and mixtures thereof.
20.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 19, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is an
imidazolinone herbicide.
21.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 19, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is a
sulfonylurea herbicide.
22.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 19, 20, or 21 wherein said nucleic acid encodes an AHAS protein comprising 70% or more
identity to one or more of the amino acid sequences in Figure 2.
23.     The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 19, 20, 21, or 22, wherein said nucleic acid encodes a Brassica napus AHAS protein.
                                                   48

24.      The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, or 23, wherein said nucleic acid encodes a Brassica napus AHAS I protein.
25.      The isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, or 23, wherein said nucleic acid encodes a Brassicanapus AHAS III protein.
26.      An isolated nucleic acid encoding a Brassica acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) protein
comprising a serine to asparagine substitution in Brassica napus AHAS III gene at a position
corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
27.      An expression vector comprising a nucleic acid encoding a Brassica acetohydroxyacid
synthase (AHAS) protein comprising a mutation at one or more amino acid positions
corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, R577,
and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
28.     The expression vector of claim 27, wherein said AHAS protein encoded by said nucleic
acid comprises one or more mutations selected from the group consisting of:
        an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
        an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376
       of SEQ ID NO: 1,
       a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
       ID NO: 1,
       a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
       NO: 1,
       a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
       SEQ ID NO: 1,
                                                  49

          a tryptophan to serine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
          NO: 1,
          an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
          ID NO: 1,
          a serine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1, and
          a shrine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1.
 29.     The expression vector of claim 27, wherein the mutation comprises a serine to asparagine
 substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein said mutation
 is not S653N in BrassicaAHAS I gene.
 30.     The expression vector of claim 27, wherein the mutation comprises a serine to threonine
 substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
 31.     The expression vector of claim 27, wherein the mutation comprises a tryptophan to
leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein said
mutation is not W574L in BrassicaAHAS III gene.
32.      The expression vector of claim 27, wherein the mutation comprises an alanine to valine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
33.      The expression vector of claim 27, wherein the mutation comprises an alanine to aspartic
acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
34.      An expression vector comprising a nucleic acid encoding a Brassica acetohydroxyacid
synthase (AHAS) protein comprising a serine to asparagine substitution in Brassicanapus
AHAS III gene at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
35.      A plant comprising a Brassica acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene, wherein said
gene encodes a protein comprising a mutation at one or more amino acid positions corresponding
                                                    50

to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, R577, and S653 of SEQ
ID NO: 1.
36.      A plant comprising a Brassica acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene, wherein said
plant is resistant to an AHAS-inhibiting herbicide, wherein said AHAS gene encodes a protein
comprising a mutation at one or more amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected
from the group consisting of A205, D376, W574, R577, and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
37.      The plant of claim 35 or 36, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene comprises
one or more mutations selected from the group consisting of:
                 an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of
         SEQ ID NO: 1,
         an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
         ID NO: 1,
         an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376
         of SEQ ID NO: 1,
         a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
        SEQ ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to serine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
        an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
                                                   51

         a shrine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1, and
         a serine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1.
 38.     The plant of claim 35 or 36, wherein the mutation comprises a serine to asparagine
 substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein said mutation
is not S653N in Brassica AHAS I gene.
39.      The plant of claim 35 or 36, wherein the mutation comprises a serine to threonine
 substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
40.      The plant of claim 35 or 36, wherein the mutation comprises a tryptophan to leucine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein said mutation
is not W574L in Brassica AHAS III gene.
41.      The plant of claim 35 or 36, wherein the mutation comprises an alanine to valine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
42.      The plant of claim 35 or 36, wherein the mutation comprises an alanine to aspartic acid
substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
43.      The plant of claim 35 or 36, wherein the mutation is selected from the group consisting of
the mutations shown in Table 2.
44.      The plant of claim 35, 36 or 37, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene
comprises two or more mutations.
45.      The plant of claim 44 wherein said two or more mutations are selected from the group
consisting of the mutations shown in Table 2.
46.      The plant of claim 44 or 45, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene comprises
a first mutation at a position corresponding to S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1 and a second mutation at
                                                   52

one or more amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting
of: A205, D376, W574, and R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
47.      The plant of claim 46, wherein said first mutation comprises a shrine to asparagine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
48.      The plant of claim 46, wherein said first mutation comprises a shrine to threonine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
49.      The plant of claim 46, 47, or 48, wherein said second mutation is selected from the group
consisting of:
         an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
         an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376
        of SEQ ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
        SEQ ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to serine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
       NO: 1,
       an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
       ID NO: 1,
                                                   53

          a serine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
          NO: 1, and
          a serine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
          NO: 1.
 50.      The plant of claim 44 or 45, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene comprises
 a first mutation at a position corresponding to W574 of SEQ ID NO: 1 and a second mutation at
 a position corresponding to R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
 51.      The plant of claim 50, wherein said first mutation comprises a tryptophan to leucine
 substitution at a position corresponding to 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
 52.     The plant of claim 50 or 51, wherein said second mutation comprises an arginine to
tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
53.      The plant of claim 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, or 52,
wherein said AHAS gene encodes a protein that is resistant to inhibition by an AHAS-inhibiting
herbicide.
54.      The plant of claim 53, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is selected from the group
consisting of herbicides of: imidazolinone, sulfonylurea, triazolopyrimidine,
pyrimidinylthiobenzoate, sulfonylamino-carbonyltriazolinone, and mixtures thereof.
55.      The plant of claim 54, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is an imidazolinone
herbicide.
56.      The plant of claim 54, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is a sulfonylurea
herbicide.
57.      The plant of claim 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54,
55, or 56 wherein said AHAS gene encodes a protein comprising 70% or more identity to one or
more of the amino acid sequences in Figure 2.
                                                    54

  58.     The plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53,
 54, 55, 56, 57, 36, wherein said plant is resistant to the application of at least one AHAS
 inhibiting herbicide.
 59,      The plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53,
 54, 55, 56, 57, or 58, wherein said plant is resistant to the application of at least one AHAS
 inhibiting herbicide selected from the group consisting of herbicides of: imidazolinone,
 sulfonylurea, triazo lopyrimil dine, pyrimidinylthiobenzoate, sulfonylamino-carbonyltriazolinone,
 and mixtures thereof.
 60.     The plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53,
54, 55, 56, 57, 58, or 59, wherein said plant is a Brassica plant produced by growing a seed of a
line selected from the lines listed in Table 2.
61.      The plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53,
54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, or 60, wherein said plant is selected from the group consisting of: Spring
Oilseed Rape and Winter Oilseed Rape.
62.      The plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53,
54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, or 61 wherein said plant is a Brassica species.
63.      The plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53,
54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61 or 62, wherein said plant is Brassicanapus.
64.      The plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53,
54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, or 63, wherein said AHAS gene encodes a Brassicanapus
AHAS protein.
65.      The plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54,
55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, or 64, wherein said AHAS gene encodes a Brassica napus
AHAS I protein.
                                                   55

 66.     The plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 39, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55,
 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, or 64, wherein said AHAS gene encodes a Brassica napus AHAS
III protein.
67.      The plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53,
54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, or 66, wherein said plant is non-transgenic.
68.      A plant comprising a Brassica acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene, wherein said
gene encodes a protein comprising a serine to asparagine substitution in Brassica napus AHAS
III gene at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
69.      A seed comprising a Brassica acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene, wherein said
gene encodes a protein comprising a mutation at one or more amino acid positions corresponding
to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, R577, and S653 of SEQ
ID NO: 1.
70.     The seed of claim 69, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene comprises one or
more mutations selected from the group consisting of:
                an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of
        SEQ ID NO: 1,
        an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376
        of SEQ ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
                                                  56

         a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
         SEQ ID NO: 1,
         a tryptophan to serine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1,
         an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
         ID NO: 1,
         a serine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1, and
         a serine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1.
71.      The seed of claim 69, wherein the mutation comprises a shrine to asparagine substitution
at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein said mutation is not
S653N in Brassica AHAS I gene.
72.     The seed of claim 69, wherein the mutation comprises a shrine to threonine substitution at
a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
73.     The seed of claim 69, wherein the mutation comprises a tryptophan to leucine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein said mutation
is not W574L in Brassica AHAS III gene.
74.     The seed of claim 69, wherein the mutation comprises an alanine to valine substitution at
a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
75.     The seed of claim 69, wherein the mutation comprises an alanine to aspartic acid
substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
76.     The seed of claim 69, wherein the mutation is selected from the group consisting of the
mutations shown in Table 2.
                                                   57

77.      The seed of claim 69 or 70, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene comprises
two or more mutations.
78.      The seed of claim 77 wherein said two or more mutations are selected from the group
consisting of the mutations shown in Table 2.
79.      The seed of claim 77 or 78, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene comprises
a first mutation at a position corresponding to S653 of SEQ ID NO: I and a second mutation at
one or more amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting
of: A205, D376, W574, and R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
80.      The seed of claim 79, wherein said first mutation comprises a serine to asparagine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
81.      The seed of claim 79, wherein said first mutation comprises a serine to threonine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
82.      The seed of claim 79, 80, or 81, wherein said second mutation is selected from the group
consisting of:
         an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1,
        an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376
        of SEQ ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
                                                   58

          a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
          SEQ ID NO: 1,
          a tryptophan to serine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
          NO: 1,
          an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
          ID NO: 1,
          a serine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
          NO: 1, and
          a serine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
          NO: 1.
 83.      The seed of claim 77 or 78, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene comprises
 a first mutation at a position corresponding to W574 of SEQ ID NO: I and a second mutation at
 a position corresponding to R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
 84.     The seed of claim 83, wherein said first mutation comprises a tryptophan to leucine
 substitution at a position corresponding to 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
85.      The seed of claim 83 or 84, wherein said second mutation comprises an arginine to
tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
86.      The seed of claim 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, or 85,
wherein said AHAS gene encodes a protein that is resistant to inhibition by an AHAS-inhibiting
herbicide.
87.      The seed of claim 86, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is selected from the group
consisting of herbicides of: imidazolinone, sulfonylurea, triazolopyrimidine,
pyrimidinylthiobenzoate, sulfonylamino-carbonyltriazolinone, and mixtures thereof.
88.      The seed of claim 87, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is an imidazolinone
herbicide.
                                                    59

  89.     The seed of claim 87, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is a sulfonylurea
  herbicide.
  90.     The seed of claim 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87,
  88, or 89 wherein said AHAS gene encodes a protein comprising 70% or more identity to one or
 more of the amino acid sequences in Figure 2.
  91.     The seed of claim 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87,
  88, 89, or 90 wherein said AHAS gene encodes a Brassica napus protein.
 92.      The seed of claim 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87,
 88, 89, 90, or 91, wherein said AHAS gene encodes a Brassica napus AHAS I protein.
 93.      The seed of claim 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87,
 88, 89, 90, or 91, wherein said Brassica AHAS gene encodes a Brassica napus AHAS III
 protein.
 94.      A plant grown from the seed of claim 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81,
 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, or 93.
 95.      A plant element from the plant of claim 94, wherein the plant element is selected from
 the group consisting of pollen, protoplast, ovule, and cell.
 96.      A seed produced by a plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48,
 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, or 68.
 97.     A seed produced by a plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48,
49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, or 68 wherein said seed is
a Brassica seed.
98.      A seed produced by a plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48,
49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, or 68, wherein said seed
is a seed of a Brassicaplant line wherein said line is selected from the lines listed in Table 2.
                                                    60

 99.      A seed produced by a plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48,
 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, or 68, wherein said seed
 is non-transgenic.
  100.    A seed produced by a plant of claim 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48,
 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, or 68, wherein said seed
 is a canola seed.
 101.     A seed of an AHAS-inhibiting herbicide-resistant plant capable of producing a plant
 having AHAS herbicide resistance, wherein said seed is produced by a plant of claim 35, 36, 37,
 38, 39, 40, 41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63,
 64, 65, 66, 67, or 68
 102.    A method for producing an herbicide-resistant plant, said method comprising:
         (a)      introducing into a plant cell a gene repair oligonucleobase (GRON) with a
targeted mutation in an acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene to produce a plant cell with an
 AHAS gene that expresses an AHAS protein comprising a mutation at one or more amino acid
positions corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574,
R577, and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1;
         (b)     identifying a plant cell having substantially normal growth and catalytic activity
as compared to a corresponding wild-type plant cell in the presence of an AHAS-inhibiting
herbicide; and
        (c)      regenerating a non-transgenic herbicide-resistant plant having a mutated AHAS
gene from said plant cell.
103.    The method of claim 102, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene comprises
one or more mutations selected from the group consisting of:
                an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of
        SEQ ID NO: 1,
                                                    61

         an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
         ID NO: 1,
         an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376
         of SEQ ID NO: 1,
         a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
         ID NO: 1,
         a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1,
         a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
         SEQ ID NO: 1,
         a tryptophan to shrine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
        an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        a serine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1, and
        a serine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1.
 104.   The method of claim 102, wherein the mutation comprises a seine to asparagine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein said mutation
is not S653N in BrassicaAHAS I gene.
105.    The method of claim 102, wherein the mutation comprises a seine to threonine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
                                                   62

 106.    The method of claim 102, wherein the mutation comprises a tryptophan to leucine
 substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein said mutation
 is not W574L in BrassicaAHAS III gene.
 107.    The method of claim 102, wherein the mutation comprises an alanine to valine
 substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
 108.    The method of claim 102, wherein the mutation comprises an alanine to aspartic acid
substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
 109.    The method of claim 102, wherein the mutation is selected from the group consisting of
the mutations shown in Table 2.
 110.    The method of claim 102 or 103, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene
comprises two or more mutations.
 111.    The method of claim 110 wherein said two or more mutations are selected from the group
consisting of the mutations shown in Table 2.
 112.    The method of claim 110 or 111, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene
comprises a first mutation at a position corresponding to S653 of SEQ ID NO: I and a second
mutation at one or more amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected from the
group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, and R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
113.     The method of claim 112, wherein said first mutation comprises a seine to asparagine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
114.    The method of claim 112, wherein said first mutation comprises a serine to threonine
substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
115.    The method of claim 112 or 113, wherein said second mutation is selected from the group
consisting of:
        an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
                                                  63

          an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
          ID NO: 1,
          an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376
          of SEQ ID NO: 1,
          a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
          ID NO: 1,
          a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1,
         a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
         SEQ ID NO: 1,
         a tryptophan to serine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1,
         an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
         ID NO: 1,
         a serine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1, and
         a shrine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1.
116.    The method of claim 112 or 114, wherein said second mutation is selected from the group
consisting of:
        an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
        an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
                                                   64

          an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376
          of SEQ ID NO: 1,
          a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
         ID NO: 1,
         a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1,
         a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
         SEQ ID NO: 1,
         a tryptophan to serine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
         NO: 1,
         an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
         ID NO: 1,
        a serine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1, and
        a serine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1.
 117.   The method of claim 110 or 111, wherein said protein encoded by said AHAS gene
 comprises a first mutation at a position corresponding to W574 of SEQ ID NO: 1 and a second
mutation at a position corresponding to R577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
 118.   The method of claim 117, wherein said first mutation comprises a tryptophan to leucine
substitution at a position corresponding to 574 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
 119.   The method of claim 117 or 118, wherein said second mutation comprises an arginine to
tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
                                                   65

  120.    The method of claim 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114,
  115, 116, 117, 118, or 119, wherein said AHAS gene encodes a protein that is resistant to
 inhibition by an AHAS-inhibiting herbicide.
  121.    The method of claim 120, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is selected from the
 group consisting of herbicides of: imidazolinone, sulfonylurea, triazolopyrimidine,
 pyrimidinylthiobenzoate, sulfonylamino-carbonyltriazolinone, and mixtures thereof.
  122.   The method of claim 121, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is an imidazolinone
 herbicide.
 123.    The method of claim 121, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is a sulfonylurea
 herbicide.
 124.    The method of claim 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114,
 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, or 123, wherein said AHAS gene encodes a protein
 comprising 70% or more identity to one or more of the amino acid sequences in Figure 2.
 125.    A method for increasing the herbicide-resistance of a plant comprising crossing a first
 Brassicaplant to a second Brassicaplant, wherein said first plant comprises a Brassica
 acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene, wherein said gene encodes a protein comprising a
mutation at one or more amino acid positions corresponding to a position selected from the
group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, R577, and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1; screening a
population resulting from the cross for increased AHAS herbicide-resistance; selecting a member
resulting from the cross having increased AHAS herbicide-resistance; and producing seeds
resulting from the cross.
126.     The method of claim 125, wherein said protein encoded by said BrassicaAHAS gene
comprises one or more mutations selected from the group consisting of:
               an alanine to valine substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of
        SEQ ID NO: 1,
                                                 66

        an alanine to aspartic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 205 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        an aspartic acid to glutamic acid substitution at a position corresponding to position 376
        of SEQ ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to cysteine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to leucine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to methionine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of
        SEQ ID NO: 1,
        a tryptophan to serine substitution at a position corresponding to position 574 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1,
        an arginine to tryptophan substitution at a position corresponding to position 577 of SEQ
        ID NO: 1,
        a serine to asparagine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1, and
        a serine to threonine substitution at a position corresponding to position 653 of SEQ ID
        NO: 1.
127.    A hybrid Brassica seed produced by the method of claim 125.
128.    The method of claim 125, further comprising growing plants from seed produced from
the crossing of said first and second plants.
129.    The method of claim 125, wherein said Al IAS gene encodes a protein that is resistant to
inhibition by an AHAS-inhibiting herbicide.
                                                   67

 130.   The method of claim 129, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is selected from the
 group consisting of herbicides of: imidazolinone, sulfonylurea, triazolopyrimidine,
pyrimidinylthiobenzoate, sulfonylamino-carbonyltriazolinone, and mixtures thereof.
 131.   The method of claim 130, wherein said AIAS-inhibiting herbicide is an imidazolinone
herbicide.
 132.   The method of claim 130, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is a sulfonylurea
herbicide,
 133.   A method of controlling weeds in a field containing plants said method comprising
applying an effective amount of at least one AHAS-inhibiting herbicide to said field containing
said weeds and plants, said plant having a Brassica acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) gene,
wherein said gene encodes a protein having a mutation at one or more amino acid positions
corresponding to a position selected from the group consisting of: A205, D376, W574, R577,
and S653 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
134.    The method of claim 133, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is selected from the
group consisting of herbicides of: imidazolinone, sulfonylurea, tri azolopyrimidine,
pyrimidinylthiobenzoate, sulfonylamino-carbonyltriazolinone, and mixtures thereof
135.    The method of claim 134, wherein said AIAS-inhibiting herbicide is an imidazolinone
herbicide.
136.    The method of claim 134, wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is a sulfonylurea
herbicide.
                                                68

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
