                             Abstract
   There is provided a method for providing a game at a
   gaming machine having a game controller, the game
 5 controller arranged to perform the steps of: conducting
   play in a game having a plurality of symbols for use
   during play and from which game win outcomes can be
   determined; adjusting a pay-scale quantum if a designated
   event involving one or more symbols occurs in a game;
10 determining an award based upon the adjusted pay-scale;
   and applying the award for at least one game win outcome
   involving one or more symbols.

                                              6/6
                                                      710 700
                                    commence base
                                    game sequence
                                                      720
                                carry out sequence of
                                         games
                                                      730
                                 trigger secondary
                                      game play
                                                      740
                                   determine award
                                  to adjust pay scale
                                       quantum
                                                      750
                                     apply award
                                                      760
                                 allocate award based
                                     on outcome of
                                    secondary game
                                       Figure 7
7849069_1(GHMaters) P72660.AU.4

                                      Title
                A GAMING SYSTEM AND A METHOD OF GAMING
 5                            Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   patent application number <removed-apn>, which in turn is a
   divisional application of Australian patent application number
10 2012268794, which in turn is a divisional application of
   Australian patent application number 2011235931, which in turn
   is a divisional application of Australian patent application
   no. 2008229718.       The disclosures of these applications are
   incorporated herein by reference.
15
                                      Field
   The present invention relates to a gaming system, a method of
   gaming, a game controller and computer program code.
20
                          Background to the Invention
   It is known to provide a gaming system which comprises a game
   controller arranged to randomly display several symbols from a
25 predetermined set of symbols and to determine a game outcome
   such as a game win based on the displayed symbols.       Such
   gaming systems may commonly be implemented as a stepper
   machine provided with reels with each reel carrying several
   symbols of the set, or a video machine wherein selected
30 symbols are displayed on virtual reels on a video display.
   While such gaming systems provide users with enjoyment, a need
   exists for alternative       gaming systems in order to maintain or
   increase player enjoyment.
35
                           Summary of the Invention
   In a first aspect, the invention provides a method for
   providing a game at a gaming machine having a game controller
40 and a display, the game controller arranged to perform the
   steps of:

             conducting a plurality of plays of a game by
   controlling the display to display a plurality of symbols for
   use during play and from which game win outcomes can be
   determined in each play of the game;
 5           adjusting a pay-scale quantum if a designated event
   involving one or more symbols occurs in a play of the game;
             determining an award based upon the adjusted pay
   scale;
             applying the award for at least one game win outcome
10 involving one or more symbols; and
             on the occurrence in a game win outcome of a symbol
   the same as a symbol resulting in the occurrence of the
   designated event, causing a pay scale to be adjusted
   differently to any previous adjustment, or to remain
15 unchanged.
   In an embodiment, the designated event is when game is a game
   having multiple columns and wherein the designated event is
   when one or more symbols occur in the game at a particular
20 location in one or more columns.
   In an embodiment, the designated event is when the game win
   outcome is when the one or more symbols of a game win outcome
   are different to the designated event symbol.
25
   In an embodiment, the game win outcome is when the one or more
   symbols are the same symbol as each other.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises adjusting a quantum of
30 the pay scale according to a random amount.
   In an embodiment, the plurality of plays of the game, comprise
   a series of free games triggered from a base game.
35 In a second aspect, the invention provides a gaming machine,
   comprising:
        a display;
        a game controller; and
        a memory storing instructions which when executed by the
40 game controller, cause the game controller to:
              conduct a plurality of plays of a game by

   controlling the display to display a plurality of symbols for
   use during play and from which game win outcomes can be
   determined in each play of the game;
             adjust a pay-scale quantum if a designated event
 5 involving one or more symbols occurs in a play of the game;
             determine an award based upon the adjusted pay
   scale;
             apply the award for at least one game win outcome
   involving one or more symbols; and
10           on the occurrence in a game win outcome of a symbol
   the same as a symbol resulting in the occurrence of the
   designated event, cause a pay scale to be adjusted differently
   to any previous adjustment, or to remain unchanged.
15 In an embodiment, the instructions when executed by the game
   controller, cause the game controller to:
             play a game with multiple columns and to,
             enable the designated event to occur when one or
   more symbols occur in the game at a particular location in one
20 or more columns.
   In an embodiment, the instructions when executed by the game
   controller, cause the game controller to provide a game win
   outcome when one or more symbols in the game win outcome are
25 different symbols to the one or more symbols that occur in the
   designated event.
   In a third aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
   comprising:
30           a display to enable a player to view game play and
   designated events and game win outcomes,      a game
   controller; and
             a memory storing instructions which when executed by
   the game controller, cause the game controller to:
35                 conduct a plurality of plays of a game by
   controlling the display to display a plurality of symbols for
   use during play and from which game win outcomes can be
   determined in each play of the game;
                   adjust a pay-scale quantum if a designated
40 event involving one or more symbols occurs in a play of the
   game;

                   determine an award based upon the adjusted pay
   scale;
                   apply the award for at least one game win
   outcome involving one or more symbols; and
 5                 on the occurrence in a game win outcome of a
   symbol the same as a symbol resulting in the occurrence of the
   designated event, cause a pay scale to be adjusted differently
   to any previous adjustment, or to remain unchanged.
10 In a fourth aspect, the invention provides computer program
   code which when executed by a processor in a computer
   implements the above method.
   In a fifth aspect the invention provides a computer readable
15 medium comprising the program code.
                  Brief Description of the Drawings
   An embodiment of the invention will now be described in
20 relation to the following drawings in which:
   Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of a gaming
   system;
25 Figure 2 is a perspective view of a gaming machine;
   Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components of a
   gaming machine;
30 Figure 4 is a block diagram representing the structure of a
   memory;
   Figure 5 is a diagram schematic of a networked gaming system;
35 Figure 6 is a further block diagram of the gaming system; and
   Figure 7 is a flowchart of a preferred embodiment.
                              Embodiment
40
   An embodiment provides a gaming system where a player plays at

   least one game, and preferably a sequence of games.   Here the
   game has a plurality of symbols for use during game play and
   from which game win outcomes can be determined.   When a
   designated event occurs in the game involving one or more
 5 symbols, an adjusted pay scale is provided for a game win
   outcome involving one or more symbols.   This game win outcome
   can be provided in a current game round or in a subsequent
   game round.  The game can be a feature game triggered from a
   base game.
10
   The gaming system may be provided in a number of different
   forms.
   In a first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided
15 wherein all or most components required for implementing the
   game are present in a player operable gaming machine.
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing the
20 game are present in a player operable gaming machine and some
   of the components required for implementing the game are
   located remotely relative to the gaming machine.   For example,
   a "thick client" architecture may be used wherein part of the
   game is executed on a player operable gaming machine and part
25 of the game is executed remotely, such as by a gaming server;
   or a "thin client" architecture may be used wherein most of
   the game is executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a
   player operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
   and/or visible gaming information to the player and receive
30 gaming inputs from the player.
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
   envisaged.  For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server and
35 the respective functions of the gaming machine and the gaming
   server are selectively modifiable.  For example, the gaming
   system may operate in stand alone gaming machine mode, "thick
   client" mode or "thin client" mode depending on the game being
   played, operating conditions, and so on.   Other variations
40 will be apparent to persons skilled in the art.

   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system comprises several
   core components.   At the broadest level, the core components
   are a player interface 50 and a game controller 60 as
   illustrated in Figure 1.   The player interface is arranged to
 5 enable manual interaction between a player and the gaming
   system and for this purpose includes the input/output
   components required for the player to enter instructions and
   play the game.
10 Components of the player interface may vary from embodiment to
   embodiment but will typically include a credit mechanism 52 to
   enable a player to input credits and receive payouts, one or
   more displays 54 and a game play mechanism 56 that enables a
   player to input game play instructions and a sound reproducing
15 device  (not specially shown).
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor 62 that
   processes the game play instructions in accordance with game
20 play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the display.
   Typically, the game play instructions are stored as program
   code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.    Herein the
   term "processor" is used to refer generically to any device
   that can process game play instructions in accordance with
25 game play rules and may include:   a microprocessor,
   microcontroller, programmable logic device or other
   computational device, a general purpose computer    (e.g. a PC)
   or a server.
30 A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming machine 10
   is illustrated in Figure 2.    The gaming machine 10 includes a
   console 12 having a display 14 on which is displayed
   representations of a game 16 that can be played by a player.
   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10 houses a bank of
35 buttons 22 for enabling a player to interact with the gaming
   machine, in particular during game play.    The mid-trim 20 also
   houses a credit input mechanism 24 which in this example
   includes a coin input chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.
   Other credit input mechanisms may also be employed, for
40 example, a card reader for reading a smart card, debit card or
   credit card.   A player marketing module has a reading device

   may also be provided for the purpose of reading a player
   tracking device, for example as part of a loyalty program.
   The player tracking device may be in the form of a card, flash
   drive or any other portable storage medium capable of being
 5 read by the reading device.
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example pay
   tables and details of bonus awards and other information or
   images relating to the game.  Further artwork and/or
10 information may be provided on a front panel 29 of the console
   12.  A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the front panel 29 for
   dispensing cash payouts from the gaming machine 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
15 display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen device.
   Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid crystal display,
   plasma screen, any other suitable video display unit, or the
   visible portion of an electromechanical device.   The top box
   26 may also include a display, for example a video display
20 unit, which may be of the same type as the display 14, or of a
   different type.
   Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of a
   typical gaming machine which may be the same as or different
25 to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101 having a
   processor 102.  Instructions and data to control operation of
   the processor 102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data
30 communication with the processor 102.  Typically, the gaming
   machine 100 will include both volatile and non-volatile memory
   and more than one of each type of memory, with such memories
   being collectively represented by the memory 103.
35 The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
   including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring player
   credit, an input/output (I/0) interface 105 for communicating
   with peripheral devices of the gaming machine 100.   The
   input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices may
40 be intelligent devices with their own memory for storing
   associated instructions and data for use with the input/output

   interface or the peripheral devices.   A random number
   generator module 113 generates random numbers for use by the
   processor 102.   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate
   that the reference to random numbers includes pseudo-random
 5 numbers.
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 comprise one or more displays 106, a touch
10 screen 107  (or buttons for user interface), a card and/or
   ticket reader 108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin
   input mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111.
   Additional hardware may be included as part of the gaming
   machine 100, or hardware may be omitted as required for the
15 specific implementation.
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.    The
   network card may, for example, send status information,
20 accounting information or other information to a central
   controller,  server or database and receive data or commands
   from the central controller, server or database.
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of an
25 exemplary memory 103.   The memory 103 includes RAM 103A, EPROM
   103B and a mass storage device 103C.   The RAM 103A typically
   temporarily holds program files for execution by the processor
   102 and related data.   The EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device
   and/or may contain some system or game related code.   The mass
30 storage device 103C is typically used to store game programs,
   the integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B or
   elsewhere.
35 It is also possible for the operative components of the gaming
   machine 100 to be distributed, for example input/output
   devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be provided remotely from
   the game controller 101.
40 Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
   alternative embodiment.   The gaming system 200 includes a

   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
   Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of two
   gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the network
   201.  The gaming machines 202 provide a player operable
 5 interface and may be the same as the gaming machines 10,100
   shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have simplified functionality
   depending on the requirements for implementing game play.
   While banks 203 of two gaming machines are illustrated in
   Figure 5, banks of one, three or more gaming machines are also
10 envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network
   201.  The displays 204 may, for example, be associated with
   one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.  The displays 204
15 may be used to display representations associated with game
   play on the gaming machines 202, and/or used to display other
   representations, for example promotional or informational
   material.
20 In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements part
   of the game played by a player using a gaming machine 202 and
   the gaming machine 202 implements part of the game.  With this
   embodiment, as both the game server and the gaming device
   implement part of the game, they collectively provide a game
25 controller.  A database management server 206 may manage
   storage of game programs and associated data for downloading
   or access by the gaming devices 202 in a database 206A.
   Typically, if the gaming system enables players to participate
   in a Jackpot game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to
30 carry out the accounting in respect of the Jackpot game.  A
   loyalty program server 212 may also be provided.
   In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements most
   or all of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
35 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially provides only the
   player interface.  With this embodiment, the game server 205
   provides the game controller.  The gaming machine will receive
   player instructions, pass these to the game server which will
   process them and return game play outcomes to the gaming
40 machine for display.  In a thin client embodiment, the gaming
   machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running

   software that provides a player interface operable using
   standard computer input and output components.
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
 5 administration of the gaming network 200, including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208, and a licensing
   server 209 to monitor the use of licenses relating to
   particular games.  An administrator terminal 210 is provided
   to allow an administrator to run the network 201 and the
10 devices connected to the network.
   The gaming network 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
   network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet, for
15 example through a firewall 211.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in accordance
   with known techniques, functionality at the server side of the
   network may be distributed over a plurality of different
20 computers.  For example, elements may be run as a single
   "engine" on one server or a separate server may be provided.
   For example, the game server 205 could run a random generator
   engine.  Alternatively, a separate random number generator
   server could be provided.  Further, persons skilled in the art
25 will appreciate that a plurality of games servers could be
   provided to run different games or a single game server may
   run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.
30 The embodiment may be implemented in relation to a spinning
   reel type game. Gaming systems for implementing games that
   involve a display of spinning reels as part of the display of
   the outcome of a game have either a video display or a
   mechanical display, these later machines most usually being
35 "stepper" machines which have a separate motor for each reel.
   However, persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the
   invention can be implemented in respect if other forms of
   games, including; card games; ball draw games  (e.g. bingo or
   keno); dice games; and pin and ball games, and that spinning
40 reels can be replaced with columns with changing symbols.

   In some implementations the game controllers of such gaming
   machines select symbols by employing a stop determining
   function that randomly determines the stop position for each
   reel.  For example, if there are five reels, each having
 5 twenty symbols, the stop determining function might determine
   that the stop positions are positions:  3, 13, 7, 9 and 17.
   The spinning of the reels is then controlled so that each
   symbol comes to a stop in the same row, typically a
   predetermined row in a "window" visible to the player on the
10 display that which corresponds to a player playing a single
   win line.  When a reel stops, the symbols will be in one of a
   plurality of possible symbol positions for that reel relative
   to the stop position.
15 Spinning reel type games typically allow a player to select
   how many win lines of a plurality of win lines they will play
   in each game - i.e. a minimum of one win line up to the
   maximum number of win lines allowed by the game.   Persons,
   skilled in the art, will appreciate that in other embodiments,
20 the player may select a number of reels to play. Each win line
   is formed by a set of symbol positions consisting of one
   symbol position from each reel.   That is, a predetermined
   symbol position of each reel is assigned to a win line.    The
   symbol positions that constitute each of the win lines are
25 usually advertised to the player by markings on the display or
   diagrams showing the symbol positions that correspond to each
   win line.  Some of the win lines will be horizontal or
   diagonal lines.  Typically, the win lines will be constituted
   by symbol positions in the visible window.   A game outcome is
30 determined based on the symbols on the win lines and a prize
   table that specifies awards.
   The game controller 60 of the embodiment is shown in more
   detail in Figure 6.   It will apparent that the processor 62
35 implements a number of modules, namely random number generator
   module 621, symbol selector module 622, outcome determiner
   module 623, award determiner module 624, sequence monitoring
   module 625, entitlement module 627 and display controller
   module 626 based on data stored in memory 64.   Persons skilled
40 in the art will appreciate that not all modules need be
   implemented by processor 62.   For example, the random number

    generator module 621 could be implemented by a separate
    circuit or by a random number generator server.
    In the embodiment, the entitlement module 627 determines when
  5 a player is entitled to play the game from a base game.   There
    may be one or more plays in the game.   For example, a
    triggering event such as a particular symbol occurring in a
    base game can trigger play in the game.   Other triggers can be
    used, as would be apparent to those skilled in the art.
10
    When the entitlement is established, the entitlement module
    627 instructs the sequence monitor 625 to initiate a feature
    game having a sequence of one or more games based on a number
    of games specified in sequence data 643.   The sequence monitor
15  625 is arranged to keep track of the sequence to ensure that
    all games of the sequence are carried out accordingly after
    each game in the sequence, the sequence monitor 625 updates
    the sequence data 643 to indicate how many games remain in the
    sequence.
20
    During each game of a sequence, the symbol selector 622
    selects the symbols to appear based on symbol data 641 which
    specifies the available symbols.  The symbols are selected by
    the symbol selector using a random number obtained from the
25  random number generator 621.  The outcome determiner module
    623 determines the game outcomes.  The pay scale adjuster 624
    then adjusts an amount for outcomes using pay scale data at
    644.  The adjustment is based on the number of win lines the
    player is playing and the symbol combinations.   Persons
30  skilled in the art will also appreciate that the game outcomes
    and their associated prizes are displayed on the display 54
    under control of the display controller 626.
    The method 700 of an embodiment of the invention is summarised
35  in Figure 7. At step 710 it is determined that a base game
    sequence should commence.  The game controller 60 then carries
    out a sequence of base games 720, determines the award if the
    base game has an award, triggers the particular game play 730,
    which could be identified as a secondary game or a feature
40  game, determines the award 740 and adjusts an award pay-scale
    quantum if a designated event occurs in the feature game,

   applies the award 750 and awards the player 760 based on the
   outcome of the game.
                               Example
 5
   A player is playing a base game and an event therein triggers
   a feature game play.  When a designated event occurs in the
   feature game, this triggers the pay scale for a game outcome
   to change such as by an arbitrary/random amount.   The game
10 outcome may be dependent on the occurrence of one or more
   symbols or a unique combination of symbols.   In one example,
   played with multiple spinning reels the game outcome may be
   when a WILD symbol appears on one or more reels.   Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that multiple spinning
15 reels may be replaced by multiple columns of changing symbols,
   and that multiple spinning reels is merely one frequently used
   option for game play and multiple columns is to be understood
   to be a term to encompass multiple spinning reels.
20 In the particular example of the embodiment free feature games
   are triggered from a base game.   Such triggering can be by any
   known way of triggering further games.   A series of free games
   then begins to play.  Each time a SCATTER appears on reel
   three of a five reel game this triggers a designated event,
25 and the scorecard of a WILD symbol if it should occur on one
   or more other reels will increase the pay out quantum by a
   random/arbitrary amount.  Thus, the occurrence of a SCATTER
   symbol in a game on reel three, triggers a designated event,
   and if the WILD symbol then appears on one or more reels as an
30 outcome the pay scale is adjusted.   Persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that the designated event could occur in any
   reel, and reel three is just one example.   Further two or more
   of the same or different symbols can be used for the
   designated event.
35
   For example when the designated event occurs, a symbol such as
   a WILD symbol appearing on respective reels in an award
   outcome can provide a game win outcome award as set out below.
40 On a designated event occurring, the WILD scorecard for a game
   win outcome will increase (be adjusted by a random/arbitrary

   amount) as follows:
   number of occurrences     5    1000
   number of occurrences     4    500
 5 number of occurrences     3    100
   number of occurrences     2    5
   At, for example, free game number three if a SCATTER should
   appear on reel three, then this causes the scorecard of the
10 symbol such as the WILD symbol to increase    (be adjusted by a
   random/arbitrary amount) as follows:
   number of occurrences                     5     1500
   number of occurrences                     4     700
15 number of occurrences                     3     200
   number of occurrences                     2     20
   At, for example, free game number five, if a SCATTER symbol
   again appears on reel three, this causes the scorecard of the
20 WILD symbol to increase  (be adjusted by a further
   arbitrary/random amount) as follows:
   number of occurrences                     5     2000
   number of occurrences                     4     900
25 number of occurrences                     3     500
   number of occurrences                     2     35
   And so on.
30 On the occurrence of another unique symbol designated event,
   the scorecard of a symbol in an outcome, such as the WILD
   symbol, can be used to reset the pay scale back to a normal
   pay scale or to a prior pay scale. This could be, for example,
   if a SCATTER symbol appears on reel 1.    Alternatively, if a
35 SCATTER symbol simultaneously appears on reels 1 and 3, then
   the scorecard of any symbol, such a WILD symbol or a SCATTER
   symbol can be further adjusted.    In one such case, they may
   each cancel each other out, or it may be that no change is
   applied.
40
   Thus, it can be seen that the designated event can involve one

   or more symbols, and that these could be the same symbols or
   different symbols.  Further, the game win outcome can be with
   the same symbols as the symbols that result in the designated
   event, or it may be with different symbols, or combinations
 5 thereof.
   Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the game may be
   played with a single win line or with multiple win lines.
10 It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is
   referred to herein, such reference does not constitute an
   admission that the publication forms a part of the common
   general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other
   country.
15
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of
   the invention, except where the context requires otherwise due
   to express language or necessary implication, the word
   "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising"
20 is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of
   the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
   addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   invention.

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.        A method for providing a game at a gaming machine
   having a game controller and a display, the game controller
 5 arranged to perform the steps of:
             conducting a plurality of plays of a game by
   controlling the display to display a plurality of symbols for
   use during play and from which game win outcomes can be
   determined in each play of the game;
10           adjusting a pay-scale quantum if a designated event
   involving one or more symbols occurs in a play of the game;
             determining an award based upon the adjusted pay
   scale;
             applying the award for at least one game win outcome
15 involving one or more symbols; and
             on the occurrence in a game win outcome of a symbol
   the same as a symbol resulting in the occurrence of the
   designated event, causing a pay scale to be adjusted
   differently to any previous adjustment, or to remain
20 unchanged.
   2.        A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the game has
   multiple columns and wherein the designated event is when one
   or more symbols occur in the game at a particular location in
25 one or more columns.
   3.        A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein
   the one or more symbols of a game win outcome are different to
   a symbol of the designated event.
30
   4.        A method as claimed any one of claims 1 to 3,
   wherein the game win outcome is when the one or more symbols
   are the same symbol as each other.
35 5.        A method as claimed any one of the preceding claims,
   comprising adjusting a quantum of the pay scale according to a
   random amount.
   6.        A method as claimed in any one of the preceding
40 claims, wherein the plurality of plays of the game, comprise a
   series of free games triggered from a base game.

   7.   A gaming machine, comprising:
        a display;
        a game controller; and
 5      a memory storing instructions which when executed by the
   game controller, cause the game controller to:
             conduct a plurality of plays of a game by
   controlling the display to display a plurality of symbols for
   use during play and from which game win outcomes can be
10 determined in each play of the game;
             adjust a pay-scale quantum if a designated event
   involving one or more symbols occurs in a play of the game;
             determine an award based upon the adjusted pay
   scale;
15           apply the award for at least one game win outcome
   involving one or more symbols; and
             on the occurrence in a game win outcome of a symbol
   the same as a symbol resulting in the occurrence of the
   designated event, cause a pay scale to be adjusted differently
20 to any previous adjustment, or to remain unchanged.
   8.        A game machine as claimed in claim 7 wherein the
   instructions when executed by the game controller, cause the
   game controller to:
25           play a game with multiple columns and to,
             enable the designated event to occur when one or
   more symbols occur at a particular location in one or more
   columns.
30 9.        A game machine as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8,
   wherein the instructions when executed by the game controller,
   cause the game controller to:
             provide a game win outcome when one or more symbols
   in the game win outcome are different symbols to a symbol that
35 occurs in the designated event.
   10.       A game machine as claimed in claim 7 or 8, wherein
   the instructions when executed by the game controller, cause
   the game controller to enable a game win outcome when one or
40 more symbols therein are the same symbol.

   11.        A game machine as claimed in any one of claims 7 to
   10, wherein the instructions when executed by the game
   controller, cause the game controller to:
              adjust a quantum of the pay scale according to a
 5 random amount.
   12.        A game machine as claimed in any one of claims 8 to
   11, wherein the plurality of plays of the game, comprise a
   series of free games triggered by the game controller from a
10 base game.
   13.        A gaming system comprising:
              a display to enable a player to view game play and
   designated events and game win outcomes,
15            a game controller; and
              a memory storing instructions which when executed by
   the game controller, cause the game controller to:
                   conduct a plurality of plays of a game by
   controlling the display to display a plurality of symbols for
20 use during play and from which game win outcomes can be
   determined in each play of the game;
                   adjust a pay-scale quantum if a designated
   event involving one or more symbols occurs in a play of the
   game;
25                 determine an award based upon the adjusted pay
   scale;
                   apply the award for at least one game win
   outcome involving one or more symbols; and
                   on the occurrence in a game win outcome of a
30 symbol the same as a symbol resulting in the occurrence of the
   designated event, cause a pay scale to be adjusted differently
   to any previous adjustment, or to remain unchanged.
   14.        Computer program code which when executed by a
35 processor in a computer implements the method of any one of
   claims 1 to 6.
   15.        A computer readable medium comprising the computer
   program code of claim 14.
40

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
$
         !
    !
         "#

                                      $
<removed-date>
                        *        &- &..
                                   $
               *& +                           #
                        $
<removed-apn>
                            &)    &           # %& '        (
                ,
                                             ( /)'
              / 0. +   &1)2 3)         -
                                               (
                       &/- /-01 4/..
               /-                          &/- ,1 01
                         )) 0 &
                                                      & 5
                                  ,
                                                  ( 6/)
               $                 $!
                                                    $
                                                                $

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                      4
                          $
                              7/ % ..
              $
                               & .&) .
                                & %/(
                  $       - %& '

                                          <removed-apn> <removed-date>
                              #
(/ 0. + )&- &..
                                          +*4&. (
                        +*4&.    . )&
      91 -)                             5 * 0 /8 (
     *&-/ &
                                      $
                           &1 )&*
                                                   $
                          (    */-
                                          91 -) (
     -/. * -
     *&(1.
                                           0 + ) .
                                             (
                % (0 + ) .
                  (:1

<removed-date>
                  )&** -) 4
                  5 *   91 -)
<removed-apn>
              )    + &1   91 -) &;
                       5 *
                                      $
                  /55   )&-( +
                    5 * 0. +
                  (   */- % (
                  & (:1 0 + ) .
                     91 - 1*
                    00.+ % (
                  ..&)     % (4   (
                     &- &1 )&* &;
                       )&-( + 5 *

