                                       ABSTRACT
There is provided an apparatus for dehydrating food comprising a housing for
containing removable trays for holding food items, the housing being elevated a
predetermined distance over a ground surface on which the apparatus is placed,
wherein the apparatus includes an air inflow section and an air outflow section,
whereby, in use, the air inflow section is capable of directing natural external airflow
into the housing, the apparatus further comprising a roof having first and second
sections, wherein the sections are positioned so as to provide therebetween a
vertical opening defining the air outflow section through which the air exits the
apparatus, and wherein the first section at least partially overlaps the second section
to substantially prevent rain from entering the air outflow section.

     Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There are six pages of description only

                                         DEHYDRATOR
Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to dehydrators, in particular food dehydrators that require little
or no electrical power.
Background
Food dehydrators used in developed countries are well known and generally comprise a
housing including a number of trays for holding pieces of food. A flow of heated air, generally
provided by an electrical power source, is passed through the trays to remove moisture from
the food, thereby allowing for preservation and reduction in volume of the food.
In areas of traditional farming in developing countries, such as rural parts of Nepal, there are
limited resources for food preservation. To avoid spoilage by insects, the produce must be
completely dry before it is moved to storage. Typically, vegetables are sun-dried in an
attempt to extend their shelf-life, such as by hanging up produce outside under cover from
rain (as in the case of corn) or being cut and left to dry in the fields before transporting (as in
the case of rice). This method is far from optimal and usually requires a further step of
spreading the produce over a tarp in the sun over nine to ten days. Moreover, to ensure that
the produce remains dry in such a high humidity climate, the dried harvest must be taken out
to be sun dried again from time to time. Fruit is not usually processed in this way and is
instead consumed seasonally, with excess being either fed to livestock or sold to "middle
men" at a minimal price due to imminent spoilage. This is a limiting factor on the markets
available to local farmers. The process is time-consuming, requires near constant
supervision and remains vulnerable to rain and flooding.

Indirect solar dehydrators exist which concentrate solar energy using a heat-absorbing (often
black) surface to heat air which is then passed over the food to remove moisture. This
provides a dual advantage of protecting food from contamination and the elements while
achieving much higher food drying temperature and efficiency than sun-drying. These
devices however are often prohibitively expensive for rural farmers in developing countries.
There is therefore a need for dehydrators that are affordable and appropriate to the living
and working conditions of rural farmers such as those in Nepal, while approximating the
advantages of existing solar dehydrators.
Summary of the Invention
According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for
dehydrating food comprising a housing for containing removable trays for holding food items,
the housing being elevated a predetermined distance over a ground surface on which the
apparatus is placed, wherein the apparatus includes an air inflow section and an air outflow
section, whereby, in use, the air inflow section is capable of directing natural external airflow
into the housing, the apparatus further comprising a roof having first and second sections,
wherein the sections are positioned so as to provide therebetween a vertical opening
defining the air outflow section through which the air exits the apparatus, and wherein the
first section at least partially overlaps the second section to substantially prevent rain from
entering the air outflow section.
According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
dehydrating food using the apparatus of the above aspect.
Preferably, the air inflow section comprises a series of removable, substantially cylindrical
channels. The channels may be in the form of a series of plastic water bottles.

Advantageously, these are cheap and readily available and also promote reuse and
recycling.
Preferably, the predetermined distance over the ground surface is approximately 30cm. This
distance may be advantageous in avoiding monsoonal flooding.
Preferably, the housing is constructed of local sustainable materials. These may include
bamboo for the main structural beams of the walls of the housing including supports for
raising the housing a distance above the ground surface. The walls may be formed of tin or
other sheet metal providing high thermal conductivity. Tin is particularly desirable as it can
be used for various purposes around the community at its end-of-life. Preferably, the
structure is formed to be air-tight to maximise efficiency. One of the walls may be removable
for accessing the trays and can be hung out of the way from hooks or other connectors from
external structural components of the housing. Alternatively, one of the sides of the
apparatus may be provided as a hinged door. Mesh or insect netting can be applied to the
trays and the walls of the structure, as well as the air inflow section or air outflow section.
Advantageously, this can both reduce moisture absorption by the bamboo components as
well as reduce the risk of penetration from insects. Alternatively, the tray itself can be formed
of a mesh-like material.
Preferably, the tin or metal is painted in black paint to resist corrosion as well as to absorb
more solar energy.
Embodiments of the present invention take advantage of natural convection and solar
energy. This is cost-effective and sustainable as well as community-appropriate in that it
utilises techniques already in practice in the community but improves efficiency and reduces

the risk of spoilage and wastage. Greater efficiency in drying may allow communities to
explore other opportunities for preserving food such as fruit. The apparatus according to
embodiments of the invention is of a modular design so that it may be easily repaired using
local materials. The air channels of the air inflow section need to face a predominant wind
direction, which can be adjusted day to day as directed by the community using local
weather knowledge.
Advantageously, the apparatus according to embodiments of the invention is substantially
weatherproof and can be used outdoors even during rain and flooding. Preferably, the roof
further includes a horizontal overlap between its first and second sections such that a
projection of one section overlaps the profile of the other section.
Brief Description
The present invention will now be described, by way of non-limiting example only, with
reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
Figure 1 is a top view of a solar dehydrator;
Figure 2 is a side view of the solar dehydrator of Figure 1; and
Figure 3 is a rear view of the solar dehydrator of Figures 1 and 2.
Detailed Description
Figure 1 shows a top view of a solar dehydrator 1 according to an embodiment of the
present invention. Dehydrator 1 includes roof 2, having first section 2a and second section
2b (as shown more clearly in Figure 2), the first section 2a overhanging or projecting over
second section 2b.

As shown in Figure 2, dehydrator 1 includes structural components 3 and raising supports 4
for supporting the housing of the dehydrator 1 a predetermined distance over a support
surface. Trays 7 are provided and can be easily slid in and out of the housing 6 on supports
5. Mesh or netting (not shown) is provided with each tray and can also be provided at the air
outflow section 8 (as shown in Figure 3). The air outflow section 8 is covered with a mesh
material.
Roof sections 2a and 2b are provided at an angle to the horizontal plane, and first section 2a
may be steeper than 2b, thereby defining an opening between them which comprises the air
outflow section 8. A series of air inflow channels in the form of reused plastic water bottles 9
are arranged in a lower area of the dehydrator 1. The dehydrator 1 includes walls and a
floor(not shown), that are preferably formed of tin or other sheet metal, which cover the four
sides of the dehydrator 1. These walls and floor, together with the roof sections, define and
enclose the housing in which food can be dried.
In use, the dehydrator 1 is positioned to take advantage of wind directions in the locality. The
air inflow channels 9 direct air through the lower section of the dehydrator 1. The dehydrator
is situated outside in sunlight, and the metal roof 2 and walls concentrate radiant heat within
the housing of the dehydrator 1. The air is heated as it enters the dehydrator 1 and flows
through or across the trays 7 and mesh or netting on which food is placed. Air exits from the
air outflow section 8, taking moisture from the food with it.
The apparatus according to embodiments of the invention may be scaled to different sizes or
numbers of trays. Preferably, in order to create convection flow, it has been found that
maximising the height of the stack compared to its width and depth dimensions, for example,
a ratio of at least 4:1, can be useful. However, in order to retain modularity of the apparatus,

it is preferable that the internal width and depth of the housing and the trays do not exceed
500mm and are preferably around 400mm. The height of the apparatus could be as tall as
1800mm in its entirety. It is necessary to have a certain amount of gap between each of the
trays in order to allow for airflow, which may be 200mm or more between the base of each
tray.
While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it should
be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not by way of
limitation. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that various changes in
form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
invention. Thus, the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described
exemplary embodiments.
Throughout the specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it)
or know matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to
which this specification relates.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1. An apparatus for dehydrating food comprising a housing for containing removable
       trays for holding food items, the housing being elevated a predetermined distance
       over a ground surface on which the apparatus is placed, wherein the apparatus
       includes an air inflow section and an air outflow section, whereby, in use, the air
       inflow section is capable of directing natural external airflow into the housing, the
       apparatus further comprising a roof having first and second sections, wherein the
       sections are positioned so as to provide therebetween a vertical opening defining the
       air outflow section through which the air exits the apparatus, and wherein the first
       section at least partially overlaps the second section to substantially prevent rain from
       entering the air outflow section.
   2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the air inflow section comprises a series of
       removable, substantially cylindrical channels.
   3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the air inflow section comprises a series of plastic
       water bottles.
   4. The apparatus of any of the preceding claims, wherein the predetermined distance
       over the ground surface is approximately 30cm.
   5. A method for dehydrating food using the apparatus of any one of the preceding
       claims.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
