                                           ABSTRACT
A method for inducing a desired response in a bird, wherein said method comprises:
providing at least one photon emitter; providing at least one photon emission modulation
controller in communication with said at least one photon emitter; communicating a
command from said at least one photon emission modulation controller to said at least one
photon emitter; providing a photon signal to said bird, wherein said photon signal comprises
two or more independent components, wherein said two or more independent components
comprise: a first independent component comprising a repetitive first modulated photon pulse
group, wherein said first modulated photon pulse group has one or more photon pulse ON
durations between 0.01 microseconds and 5000 milliseconds with one or more intensities, has
one or more photon pulse OFF durations between 0.1 microseconds and 24 hours, and a
wavelength color; and a second independent component comprising a repetitive second
modulated photon pulse group, wherein said second modulated photon pulse group has one or
more photon pulse ON durations between 0.01 microseconds and 5000 milliseconds with one
or more intensities, has one or more second photon pulse OFF durations between is between
0.1 microseconds and 24 hours, and a wavelength color; wherein the first independent
component and the second independent component are produced within said signal
simultaneously; wherein the second modulated photon pulse group is different from the first
modulated photon pulse group; and emitting said signal toward said bird from said at least
one photon emitter, wherein the combined effect of first modulated photon pulse group and
the second modulated photon pulse group of the signal produces a desired response from said
bird; and wherein said desired response from said bird is chosen from ovulation, fertility, egg
production or laying, hunger, growth, reduction of stress or calming, improving egg quality,
socialization, bird growth, bird development, sexual maturity, improving reproductive
quality, facilitation of nutrient uptake, photochemical responses, and regulation of circadian
rhythm.

                                                    1
   The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application No.
   <removed-apn>, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   The present application claims priority from US Application No. 14/943,135, the entire
 5 disclosure of which is also incorporated herein by reference.
   The foregoing examples of related art and limitations related therewith are intended to be
   illustrative and not exclusive, and they do not imply any limitations on the inventions
   described herein. Other limitations of the related art will become apparent to those skilled in
10 the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings.
                                              SUMMARY
   The following embodiments and aspects thereof are described and illustrated in conjunction
   with systems, tools and methods, which are meant to be exemplary and illustrative, not
15 limiting in scope.
   An embodiment of the present invention comprises a method for inducing a desired response
   in a bird, wherein said method comprises: providing at least one photon emitter; providing at
   least one photon emission modulation controller in communication with said at least one
20 photon emitter; communicating a command from said at least one photon emission modulation
   controller to said at least one photon emitter; providing a photon signal to said bird, wherein
   said photon signal comprises two or more independent components, wherein said two or more
   independent components comprise: a first independent component comprising a repetitive first
   modulated photon pulse group, wherein said first modulated photon pulse group has one or
25 more photon pulse ON durations between 0.01 microseconds and 5000 milliseconds with one
   or more intensities, has one or more photon pulse OFF durations between 0.1 microseconds
   and 24 hours, and a wavelength color; and a second independent component comprising a
   repetitive second modulated photon pulse group, wherein said second modulated photon pulse
   group has one or more photon pulse ON durations between 0.01 microseconds and 5000
30 milliseconds with one or more intensities, has one or more second photon pulse OFF durations
   between is between 0.1 microseconds and 24 hours, and a wavelength color; wherein the first
   independent component and the second independent component are produced within said
   signal simultaneously; wherein the second modulated photon pulse group is different from the
   first modulated photon pulse group; and emitting said signal toward said bird from said at least

                                                   2
   one photon emitter, wherein the combined effect of first modulated photon pulse group and the
   second modulated photon pulse group of the signal produces a desired response from said
   bird; and wherein said desired response from said bird is chosen from ovulation, fertility, egg
   production or laying, hunger, growth, reduction of stress or calming, improving egg quality,
 5 socialization, bird growth, bird development, sexual maturity, improving reproductive quality,
   facilitation of nutrient uptake, photochemical responses, and regulation of circadian rhythm.
   A further embodiment of the invention comprises a method for inducing a desired response in
   a bird, wherein said method comprises: providing at least one photon emitter; providing at
10 least one photon emission modulation controller in communication with said at least one
   photon emitter; communicating a command from said at least one photon emission modulation
   controller to said at least one photon emitter; providing a photon signal to said bird, wherein
   said photon signal comprises two or more independent components, wherein said two or more
   independent components comprise: a first independent component comprising a repetitive first
15 modulated photon pulse group, wherein said first modulated photon pulse group has one or
   more photon pulse ON durations between 0.01 microseconds and 5000 milliseconds with one
   or more intensities, has one or more photon pulse OFF durations between 0.1 microseconds
   and 24 hours, and a wavelength color; and a second independent component comprising a
   repetitive second modulated photon pulse group, wherein said second modulated photon pulse
20 group has one or more photon pulse ON durations between 0.01 microseconds and 5000
   milliseconds with one or more intensities, has one or more second photon pulse OFF durations
   between is between 0.1 microseconds and 24 hours, and a wavelength color; wherein the first
   independent component and the second independent component are produced within said
   signal simultaneously; wherein the second modulated photon pulse group is the same as the
25 first modulated photon pulse group; and emitting said signal toward said bird from said at least
   one photon emitter, wherein the combined effect of first modulated photon pulse group and the
   second modulated photon pulse group of the signal produces a desired response from said
   bird; and wherein said desired response from said bird is chosen from ovulation, fertility, egg
   production or laying, hunger, growth, reduction of stress or calming, improving egg quality,
30 socialization, bird growth, bird development, sexual maturity, improving reproductive quality,
   facilitation of nutrient uptake, photochemical responses, and regulation of circadian rhythm.
   Throughout the description and the claims of this specification the word "comprise" and
   variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises" is not intended to exclude other

                                                  3
   additives, components, integers or steps.
                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated herein and form a part of the
 5 specification, illustrate some, but not the only or exclusive, example embodiments and/or
   features. It is intended that the embodiments and figures disclosed herein are to be considered
   illustrative rather than limiting.
   FIG. 1 is a diagram showing an example of a photon modulation growth system for
10 stimulation of egg production.
   FIG. 2 is a diagram showing an example of an individual color photon modulation growth
   system pulsing different specific wavelengths of light within a signal to induce egg production
   in a bird.
15
   FIG. 3 is a diagram showing a photon emission modulation controller in communication with
   a plurality of photon emitters with sample LED arrays.
   FIG. 4 is a diagram showing photon emission modulation through a master/slave LED array.
20
   FIG. 5 is a diagram showing a master logic controller in communication and control of a series
   of photon emitters.
   FIG. 6 is a diagram showing a photon modulation management system in communication with
25 a series of bird sensors.
   FIG. 7 is a diagram showing a sample LED array in communication with various SSRs (Solid
   State Relays), power transistors or FETS.
30 FIG. 8a is a photo showing the power converter, SPI, and microcontroller of a multiple
   colored die within a single LED.
   FIG. 8b is a photo showing the backside of the multiple colored die within a single LED of
   FIG. 8a.

                                                    4
   FIG. 8c is a photo showing the high-speed switching circuitry for flashing of the multiple
   colored die within a single LED of FIG. 8a.
   FIG. 8d is a photo showing the backside of the LED array of FIG. 8c with a replaceable
 5 multicolor die LED.
   FIG. 9 is an example layout of LEDs within a LED array.
   FIG. 10 is a flow diagram showing a method of photon modulation for the stimulation of a
10 desired response in a bird through pulsing of various wavelengths.
   FIG. 11 is a flow diagram showing a method of stimulation of a desired response in a bird
   through the use of bird sensors.
15 FIG. 12 is a graph showing an example of a photon signal with a photon pulse of near red,
   with the photon signal having a repetitive rate of 400 .mu.s for the controlled stimulation of
   ovulation and egg laying in birds.
   FIG. 13 is a graph showing an example of a photon signal with a photon pulse of near red and
20 a photon pulse of far red, with the photon signal having a repetitive rate of 600 .mu.s for the
   controlled stimulation of ovulation and egg laying in birds.
   FIG. 14 is a second graph showing an example of a photon signal with a photon pulse of near
   red and a photon pulse of far red, where the two photon pulses have a different duration ON
25 and duration OFF from the example shown in FIG. 13, with the photon signal having a
   repetitive rate of 600 .mu.s for the controlled stimulation of ovulation and egg laying in birds.
   FIG. 15 is a graph showing an example of a photon signal with a photon pulse of blue and a
   photon pulse of green, with the photon signal having a repetitive rate of 600 .mu.s for the
30 controlled stimulation of hunger and growth.
   FIG. 16 is a graph showing an example of a photon signal with a photon pulse of blue, a
   photon pulse of green, and a pulse of near red with the photon signal having a repetitive rate of
   800 .mu.s for the controlled stimulation of ovulation, egg production, hunger and growth.

                                                  5
   FIG. 17 is a graph showing an example of a photon signal with a photon pulse of blue, a
   photon pulse of ultraviolet, a photon pulse of orange, a photon pulse of green, and a pulse of
   near red with the photon signal having a repetitive rate of 600 .mu.s for the controlled
 5 stimulation of ovulation, egg production, hunger and growth.
   FIG. 18 is a third graph showing an example of a photon signal with a photon pulse of near red
   and a photon pulse of far red, where the two photon pulses have a different duration ON and
   duration OFF from the examples shown in FIG. 13 and FIG. 14, with the photon signal having
10 a repetitive rate of 400 .mu.s for the controlled stimulation of ovulation and egg laying in
   birds.
   FIG. 19 is a fourth graph showing an example of a photon signal with a photon pulse of near
   red and a photon pulse of far red, where the two photon pulses have a different duration ON
15 with different intensities and duration OFF from the examples shown in FIG. 13 and FIG. 14,
   with the photon signal having a repetitive rate of 400 .mu.s for the controlled stimulation of
   ovulation and egg laying in birds.
   FIG. 20 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg production using lighting option 1 of
20 the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
   FIG. 21 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg production using lighting option 2 of
   the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
25 FIG. 22 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg production using lighting option 3 of
   the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
   FIG. 23 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg production using lighting option 4 of
   the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
30
   FIG. 24 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg production using lighting option 5 of
   the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.

                                                  6
   FIG. 25 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg production using lighting option 6 of
   the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
   FIG. 26 is a graph showing a four-way comparison of average egg production using lighting
 5 option 4 of the current disclosure with standard day/night timing, 24 hour timing in
   comparison with a commercial control and the commercial average.
   FIG. 27 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg size using lighting option 1 of the
   current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
10
   FIG. 28 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg size using lighting option 2 of the
   current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
   FIG. 29 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg size using lighting option 3 of the
15 current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
   FIG. 30 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg size using lighting option 4 of the
   current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
20 FIG. 31 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg size using lighting option 5 of the
   current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
   FIG. 32 is a graph showing a comparison of average egg size using lighting option 6 of the
   current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
25
   FIG. 33 is a graph showing a four-way comparison of average egg size using lighting option 4
   of the current disclosure with standard day/night timing, 24 hour timing in comparison with a
   commercial control and the commercial average.
30 FIG. 34 is a graph showing a comparison of average bird weight in grams using lighting
   option 1 of the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
   FIG. 35 is a graph showing a comparison of average bird weight in grams lighting option 2 of
   the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.

                                                   7
   FIG. 36 is a graph showing a comparison of average bird weight in grams using lighting
   option 3 of the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
 5 FIG. 37 is a graph showing a comparison of average bird weight in grams using lighting
   option 4 of the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
   FIG. 38 is a graph showing a comparison of average bird weight in grams using lighting
   option 5 of the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
10
   FIG. 39 is a graph showing a comparison of average bird weight in grams using lighting
   option 6 of the current disclosure with a commercial comparison.
   FIG. 40 is a graph showing a four-way comparison of average bird weight in grams using
   lighting option 4 of the current disclosure with standard day/night timing, 24 hour timing in
15 comparison with a commercial control and the commercial average.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Embodiments of the present disclosure provide systems, apparatuses and methods for inducing
   a desired response in egg laying vertebrates, such as birds or aves, including but not limited to,
20 chickens, grouse, quail, pheasant, quail, parrots, water fowl, geese, swans, doves, birds of
   prey, song birds, turkey, owls, vultures, penguins, hummingbirds, ostrich, duck or other birds,
   where the desired response includes but is not limited to fertility, ovulation, hunger, egg
   production, growth, sexual maturity, behavior and socialization and interpolation of circadian
   inputs. Examples include, but are not limited to; creating electro-magnetic wave emission
25 pulse trains (photons) of individual color spectrums in sufficient intensity to drive
   photochemical response in a bird to stimulate egg production, using a characteristic frequency
   or pattern to minimize the required input power necessary to stimulate, while also allowing for
   the monitoring of the power consumption and other variables of the system. As will be
   discussed in further detail, by controlling the duty cycle, intensity, wavelength band and
30 frequency of photon signals to a bird, such as stimulation of fertility, ovulation, or egg
   production or ovulation can not only be influenced by a human, but ovulation and egg
   production rates, size and quality, hunger, growth and mood can be controlled through the
   cycling between colors such as blue, green, yellow, near-red, far-red, infrared and ultra violet
   photon modulation.

                                                     8
   Specifically by combining multiple repetitive wavelengths of photons pulses into photon
   signals at specific combination of rates, photochemical response by the birds can be optimized
   and controlled in order to stimulate egg production, development of pullets (young chickens)
 5 and poulets (young turkeys) and the finishing of birds or boilers (birds for meat).
   The embodiments of the present disclosure induce a desired response in a bird, such as,
   hunger, fertility, sexual maturity, calming or production of eggs at a faster and or slower rate
   than traditional grow light systems used in egg laying or production. Each light "recipe" or
10 option (a photon signal having one or more repetitive modulated photon pulse groups with one
   or more first photon pulse ON durations with one or more first intensities, one or more first
   photon pulse OFF durations, and a first wavelength color) can be optimized for each desired
   response to each species of bird.
15 An additional example embodiment to the methods, systems and apparatuses described herein
   may include less heat creation: LED lighting intrinsically creates less heat than conventional
   grow lights. When LED lights are used in a dosing application, they are ON less than they are
   OFF. This creates an environment with nominal heat production from the LED lights. This is
   not only beneficial in terms of not having to use energy to evacuate the heat from the system,
20 but is beneficial to the bird because lighting may also be used to reduce animal stress or calm
   the animal while also reducing the risk of burning the bird.
   For many types of birds, egg production is based on a day/night cycle, where longer day
   lengths induce increased egg production. As winter approaches egg laying decreases with
25 many if not most species of bird. To combat the decrease in egg production, artificial light is
   often used in egg laying facilities to recreate or mimic a longer day length as opposed to night.
   Artificial light is often used throughout the chicken production process including but not
   limited to breeder houses, hatcheries, and broiler houses, to promote bird growth and egg
   production.
30
   Growing birds within buildings and vertical farms requires the usage of powered lighting to
   provide essential light for egg production and animal growth. These lights often are
   electrically powered and emit photons used for biological processes such as ovulation, egg
   laying, muscle growth and development, mood control, and hunger. Examples of various light

                                                    9
   or photon sources include, but are not limited to, metal halide light, fluorescent light, high
   pressure sodium light, incandescent light and LEDs.
   While light is the key component of the egg production in birds, this system differs from other
 5 historical and even cutting edge lighting technologies as it is used as the fundamental
   controller of bird activity. Likewise, while LED technology is a core component of lighting in
   the present disclosure, it is a unique application of LED technology coupled with other
   engineering that dramatically expands the potential for reducing costs, increasing output, and
   enhancing control compared to existing lighting technology for the commercial production of
10 eggs, breeder hens and broilers for meat.
   An embodiment herein includes one or more repetitive modulated photon pulse groups within
   a photon signal, where each repetitive pulse group has individual color spectrums or ranges of
   color spectrums, including ultraviolet, blue, green, infrared, and/or red spectrums, at a
15 frequency, intensity and duty cycle, which can be customized, monitored and optimized for
   the specific desired response, such as ovulation, egg production, hunger, mood and behavior,
   young bird growth and development as well as the finishing of broiler birds for meat while
   minimizing energy used in the system. By supplying control over the rates and efficiencies of
   modulated photon energy to the bird, different parts of the photostimulation of the bird's
20 phytochromes located in the hypothalamus and the retina (such as red opsins and green opsins)
   photo receptors are maximized allowing for optimal influence on the desired response (such as
   egg laying) while also allowing for control of a birds response.
   Opsins are a type of membrane bound phytochrome receptors found in the retina and the
25 hypothalamus region of the brain of birds and mammals. Opsins mediate a variety of functions
   in birds and mammals, including ovulation, egg laying and behavior, through the conversion
   of photons of light into an electrochemical signal.
   Photons are massless, elementary particles with no electric charge. Photons are emitted from a
30 variety of sources such as molecular and nuclear processes, the quantum of light and all other
   forms of electromagnetic radiation. Photon energy can be absorbed by phytochromes in living
   birds, and convert it into an electrochemical signal which manipulates a metabolite.

                                                   10
   This phenomenon can be seen in the vision opsin chromophore in humans. The absorption of a
   photon of light results in the photoisomerisation of the chromophore from the 1 1-cis to an all
   trans conformation. The photoisomerization induces a conformational change in the opsin
 5 protein, causing the activation of the phototransduction cascade. The result is the conversion
   of rhodopsin into prelumirhodopsin with an all-trans chromophore. The opsin remains
   insensitive to light in the trans form. The change is followed by several rapid shifts in the
   structure of the opsin and also changes in the relation of the chromophore to the opsin. It is
   regenerated by the replacement of the all-trans retinal by a newly synthesized 11-cis-retinal
10 provided from the retinal epithelial cells. This reversible and rapid chemical cycle is
   responsible for the identification and reception to color in humans. Similar biochemical
   processes exist in birds. Phytochromes and pheophytins behave very similarly to opsins in that
   they can be rapidly regulated to switch between the cis and trans configurations by dosing with
   differing wavelengths of light.
15
   The responses of birds to the variations in the length of day and night involve photon
   absorption molecular changes that closely parallel those involved in the vision cycle in
   humans.
20 Bird responses to a photon signal with one or more specific photon modulations may be
   monitored depending upon the desired response. When the desired response is the production
   of eggs, the bird may be monitored for the release of luteinizing hormones, a heterodimeric
   glycoprotein to indicate impending ovulation in female birds. Luteinizing hormones may be
   monitored via blood or urinary samples. Samples may be taken daily or at various times
25 during the day to identify the birds reaction to the photon modulation to ensure efficient egg
   production.
   The present disclosure also provides methods and systems for the amount of electric power
   used in the process of bird egg production, as well as young and broiler bird growth and
30 development, to be monitored and reduced, where the amount of energy delivered can be
   defined by calculating the total area under the graph of power over time. The present
   disclosure further provides methods and systems that allow for the monitoring, reporting and
   control of the amount of electric power used to stimulate a desired response in a bird, allowing
   an end user or energy provider to identify trends in energy use.

                                                    11
   An embodiment of the system of the present disclosure comprises at least one photon emitter
   with at least one photon source, such as an LED in communication with a photon emission
   modulation controller, including but not limited to a digital output signal, a solid-state relay,
 5 field-effect transistor ("FET") or power converter. Photon emitters are modulated to send a
   repetitive pulse, waveform or pulse train of photons, where each individual pulse comprises at
   least one color spectrum, wavelength or multiple color spectrums or wavelengths and is
   capable varying intensities. Each photon pulse is directed toward a bird for a duration of time
   ON, such as two milliseconds with one or more intensities, with a duration of delay or time
10 OFF between photon pulses, such as two hundred milliseconds or up to 24 hours.
   As used herein "bird" includes warm-blooded, vertebrates, including but not limited to, birds
   or aves, including but not limited to, chickens, grouse, quail, pheasant, quail, parrots, water
   fowl, geese, swans, doves, birds of prey, song birds, turkey, owls, vultures, penguins,
15 hummingbirds, ostrich, duck or other birds.
   As used herein, "duty cycle" is the length of time it takes for a device to go through a complete
   ON/OFF cycle or photon signal. Duty cycle is the percent of time that an entity spends in an
   active state as a fraction of the total time under consideration. The term duty cycle is often
20 used pertaining to electrical devices, such as switching power supplies. In an electrical device,
   a 60% duty cycle means the power is on 60% of the time and off 40% of the time. An example
   duty cycle of the present disclosure may range from 0.01% to 90% including all integers in
   between.
25 As used herein "frequency" is the number of occurrences of a repeating event per unit time and
   any frequency may be used in the system of the present disclosure. Frequency may also refer
   to a temporal frequency. The repeated period is the duration of one cycle in a repeating event,
   so the period is the reciprocal of the frequency.
30 As used herein, the term "waveform" refers to the shape of a graph of the varying quantity
   against time or distance.
   As used herein, the term "pulse wave" or "pulse train" is a kind of non-sinusoidal waveform
   that is similar to a square wave, but does not have the symmetrical shape associated with a

                                                   12
   perfect square wave. It is a term common to synthesizer programming, and is a typical
   waveform available on many synthesizers. The exact shape of the wave is determined by the
   duty cycle of the oscillator. In many synthesizers, the duty cycle can be modulated (sometimes
   called pulse-width modulation) for a more dynamic timbre. The pulse wave is also known as
 5 the rectangular wave, the periodic version of the rectangular function.
   In an embodiment of the present disclosure and as will be described in further detail below, the
   emission of one or more repetitive photon pulses within a photon signal from the growth
   system described herein where each repetitive photon pulse has a duration ON with one or
10 more intensities and a duration OFF, a wavelength band and duty cycle induces a gain
   efficiency greater than 1 where Gain=Amplitude out/Amplitude in.
   FIG. 1 provides a block diagram showing an example of a photon modulation management
   system 100. As shown in FIG. 1, a photon emitter 106 and 108 is shown over a period of time
15 in communication with a photon emission modulation controller 104 for the purpose of
   modulating the emission of photons to a bird for inducing a wide range of desired responses in
   birds including but not limited to ovulation, sexual maturity, mood and hunger. The modulated
   application of photons to a bird by providing photon pulses of one or more frequencies
   followed by pulses of one or more other frequencies for a duration along with a delay between
20 pulses, allows for peak stimulation/modulation of a bird's biological components (opsins
   receptors) and biological responses, such as a the pulsing of one or more specific spectrums of
   light to induce a specific electrochemical signal for the production of a specific metabolite.
   Further, the modulation of photons to a bird allows for the optimization of photon absorption
   by opsin receptors without oversaturation of the receptors. As described below, the modulation
25 of the photon pulses increase energy and heat efficiency of current poultry production lighting
   systems by reducing the overall power draw by the system of the present disclosure as much
   as 99% or more of the photon source when compared to conventional poultry production
   lighting systems, such as a 60 watt grow light, thereby reducing the amount of power and cost
   used to facilitate egg production from a bird. In an example of the energy saving potential of
30 the system of the present disclosure, the system pulses 49.2 watts of photons for two
   microseconds per 200 microseconds creating an effective power consumption of 0.49 watt
   hrs/hr on the power payment meter or 0.82% of the power in a 60 watt standard incandescent
   bulb. In addition, because the photon emitter is not continuously emitting photons, the amount
   of heat produced from the photon emitter will be significantly reduced, thereby significantly

                                                   13
   reducing the cost of cooling a facility to compensate for the increased heat from lighting. The
   system of the present disclosure may be customized based upon bird-specific requirements for
   photon intensity, pulse ON duration, pulse OFF (or duty cycle), the light spectrum of the pulse
   including but not limited to white, near-red, yellow, green, and blue, orange, far-red, infrared,
 5 and ultra-violet to encourage optimal ovulation, hunger, mood and sexual development for
   selected birds such as chickens, ducks, quail or turkeys.
   As shown in FIG. 1, a master logic controller (MLC) 102, such as solid-state circuit with
   digital output control or a central processing unit (CPU) is in communication with a photon
10 emission modulation controller 104 by means of a communication signal 134. The MLC 102
   provides the system of the present disclosure with input/output of the parameters and the
   appropriate instructions or the specialized functions for the modulation of photons from a
   photon emitter 106 and 108.
15 In a further embodiment, the MLC 102 may be hard wired or wireless to an external source
   such as a host, allowing external access to the MLC 102 by a host. This allows remote access
   by a user to monitor the input and output of the MLC 102, provide instructions or control to
   the systems while also allowing for remote programming and monitoring of the MLC 102.
20 In a further embodiment, a power measurement or power consumption sensor may be
   integrated or embedded into the MLC 102 in the form of an integrated circuit allowing for the
   measurement and reporting of the power consumption of the system based on the voltage and
   the current draw of the system of the present disclosure. The power consumption of the system
   can then be communicated either wirelessly or by hardwire from the MLC 102 to a host. Data,
25 including power consumption may also be sent to an outside receiver such as a database that is
   not connected to the system.
   The photon emission modulation controller 104 receives commands and instructions from the
   MLC 102, including but not limited to, the duration ON and intensity, duration OFF duty
30 cycle, intensity, wavelength band and frequency of each repetitive photon pulse within a
   photon signal 118 from a photon emitter 106. The photon emission modulation controller 104
   may be any device that modulates the quanta and provides the control and command for the
   duration ON and intensity, duration OFF, wavelength band, and frequency of each repetitive
   photon pulse from a photon emitter 106 and 108. A variety of devices may be used as the

                                                    14
   photon emission modulation controller 104, including but not limited to a solid-state relay
   (SSR), such as the Magnacraft 70S2 3V solid-state relay from Magnacraft Inc., optical
   choppers, power converters and other devices that induce modulation of a photon pulse. A
   variety of photon emitters 106 and 108 may be used, including but not limited to, an
 5 incandescent (Tungsten-halogen and Xenon), Fluorescent (CFL's), high intensity discharge
   (Metal Halide, High-Pressure Sodium, Low-Pressure Sodium, Mercury Vapor), sunlight, light
   emitting diodes (LEDs). It should be understood that this description is applicable to any such
   system with other types of photon emission modulation controllers, including other methods to
   cycle a light or photon source ON and OFF, cycling one or more colors or spectrums of light
10 at different times, durations and intensities, such as ultraviolet, violet, near-red, green, yellow,
   orange, blue and far-red, allowing multiple pulses of one spectrum before pulsing another
   spectrum or in combination, as will be understood by one skilled in the art, once they
   understand the principles of the embodiments. It should also be understood that this ON and
   OFF cycling can be in the form of a digital pulse, pulse train, or varying waveform.
15
   As shown in FIG. 1, based on the instructions from the MLC 102, the photon emission
   modulation controller 104 sends a photon emission control signal 136 to a photon emitter 106.
   When the photon emission control signal 136 is sent to the photon emitter 106 goes ON, the
   photon emitter 106 emits at least one photon signal 118 where each photon signal comprises
20 one or more repetitive photon pulses, where each repetitive photon pulse has separate duration
   ON with one or more intensities, a wavelength band and frequency, which is transmitted to a
   bird 122. Then based on the instructions from the MLC 102, when the photon emitter control
   signal 136 sent to the photon emitter 108 goes OFF, the photon emitter 108 will not emit a
   photon pulse, and therefore no photons are transmitted to a bird 122. As shown in FIG. 1,
25 starting from the left side of FIG. 1, the emission of photons 118, such as a pulse of near-red
   photons, and bird 122 ovulation and egg production 124 is shown over a period of time 120.
   The example of FIG. 1 provides a photon signal 118, such as near-red, emitted from a photon
   emitter 106 for two (2) milliseconds with a duration of delay of two hundred (200)
   milliseconds before a second photon signal 118 is emitted from the same photon emitter 106
30 for two milliseconds (please note that FIG. 1 is a descriptive example of photon pulses emitted
   over time. FIG. 1 is not drawn to scale and the amount of growth by the bird between pulses in
   FIG. 1 is not necessarily accurate).

                                                    15
   As will be understood by one skilled in art, in an additional embodiment, the system as
   described in FIG. 1 may be completely housed in a single unit comprising multiple photon
   emitters creating an array (shown in FIG. 3, FIG. 7, FIGS. 8a, 8b, 8c, 8d, and FIG. 9),
   allowing each individual single unit to be self-sufficient, without the need for an external
 5 control or logic unit. An example self-sufficient unit with multiple photon emitters may be in
   the form of a unit that may be connected to a light socket, or light fixtures that may be
   suspended above one or more birds and connected to a power source.
   The systems as shown in FIG. 1 may also take the form of a master/slave system, as will be
10 discussed in FIG. 4, where by example, a master photon emitter containing all logic and
   controls for the emission of photon from master photon emitter as well as any additional
   photon emitters in communication with the master photon emitter.
   A variety of power supplies may be used in the present disclosure. These sources of power
15 may include but are not limited to battery, converters for line power, solar and/or wind power.
   The intensity of the photon pulse may be static with distinct ON/OFF cycles or the intensity
   may be changes of 1%or larger of the quanta of the photon pulse. The intensity of the photon
   pulse from the photon emitter can be controlled through the variance of voltage and/or current
   from the power supplies and delivered to the light source. It will also be appreciated by one
20 skilled in the art as to the support circuitry that will be required for the system of the present
   disclosure, including the photon emitter control unit and the photon emitters. Further, it will be
   appreciated that the configuration, installation and operation of the required components and
   support circuitry are well known in the art. The program code, if a program code is utilized,
   for performing the operations disclosed herein will be dependent upon the particular processor
25 and programming language utilized in the system of the present disclosure. Consequently, it
   will be appreciated that the generation of a program code from the disclosure presented herein
   would be within the skill of an ordinary artisan.
   FIG. 2 provide two different block diagrams showing examples of a photon modulation
30 management system 200. As shown in FIG. 2 and repeated from FIG. 1, a photon emitter 106
   and 108 is shown over a period of time in communication with a photon emission modulation
   controller 104 for the purpose of modulating individual pulses of photons comprising
   individual color spectrums to a bird, including but not limited to white, green, near-red, blue,
   yellow orange, far-red, infrared, and ultra-violet color spectrums, wavelength between 0.1 nm

                                                   16
   and 1 cm. As will be understood by one skilled in the art, the present disclosure may include
   color spectrums of specific, individual wavelengths between 0.1 nm and 1.0 cm, or may
   include a range or band of wavelengths 0.1 to 200 nm in width, herein "wavelength band."
 5 The modulation of individual color spectrums of photons to a bird by providing specific color
   spectrum pulses for a duration along with a delay between pulses, allows for peak stimulation
   of a bird's biological components and responses, such as a bird's retina opsins and
   hypothalamus opsins for egg production. Examples of the ability to control specific aspects of
   a bird's biological components or responses through the pulsing of individual color spectrums,
10 specific color wavelength or a range of color wavelengths may include, but are not limited to:
   a. egg production through the modulation of pulses of a specific far-red or in combination with
   near red wavelengths (example wavelengths may include 620 nm to 850 nm) for a period of
   time; b. hunger, growth, sexual development as well as helps to control the mood of the birds
   by pulses of blue light, as well as the regulation of circadian rhythms (an example range may
15 include with a range of 450 nm to 495 nm); c. ultraviolet or violet light (by example 10 nm to
   450 nm) may be used to influence social behavior and mood as well as to facilitate nutrient
   update such as calcium; d. green light (such as 560 nm, but may include 495 nm to 570 nm)
   may be used to promote or stimulate growth, including muscle growth, improve reproduction
   as well as egg quality; and e. additional orange light (590 nm to 620 nm) and/or yellow light
20 (570 nm to 590 nm) may also be used to influence bird responses.
   The modulation of individual color spectrums, specific wavelength and a range of wavelengths
   of photons to a bird by providing specific color spectrum pulses for a duration along with a
   delay between pulses also allows for the control of growth or biological responses, such as
25 mood, growth, ovulation, sexual maturity, and hunger in birds. An example may include one
   light or through the combination of many lights, cycling the lights on and off to control
   ovulation and growth in a bird.
   As shown in FIG. 2 and repeated from FIG. 1, a master logic controller (MLC) 102 is in
30 communication with a photon emission modulation controller 104 by means of a
   communication signal 134. The MLC 102 provides the system of the present disclosure with
   input/output of the parameters and the appropriate instructions or the specialized functions for
   the modulation of a specific individual color spectrum of photons from a photon emitter 106
   and 108.

                                                    17
   The photon emission modulation controller 104 receives commands and instructions from the
   MLC 102 including but not limited to the duration ON and intensity, duration OFF,
   wavelength band and frequency of each repetitive photon pulse 202 and 204 within a photon
 5 signal 118 or a plurality of pulses of a specific color spectrum from a photon emitter 106 and
   108 within a photon signal. The photon emission modulation controller 104 provides the
   control and command for the duration ON and intensity, duration OFF, wavelength band and
   frequency of each repetitive photon pulse 202 and 204 within a photon signal 118 or plurality
   of pulses from a photon emitter 106, and 108.
10
   As shown in FIG. 2, based on the instructions from the MLC 102, the photon emission
   modulation controller 104 sends a photon emission control signal 136 to a photon emitter 106
   and 108. When the photon emission control signal 136 sent to the photon emitter 106 ON, the
   photon emitter 106 emits one or more repetitive photon pulses of a specific color spectrum 202
15 or 204, comprising the photon signal 118, which is transmitted to a bird 122. Then based on
   the instructions from the MLC 102, when the photon emitter control signal 136 sent to the
   photon emitter 108 goes OFF, the photon emitter 108 will not emit a photon signal, and
   therefore no photons are transmitted to a bird 122. As shown in FIG. 2, starting from the left
   side of FIG. 2, the emission of a photon signal 118 comprising repetitive photon pulses of a
20 specific color spectrum 202 (green) and 204 (far-red) and bird 122 ovulation and egg
   production 124 is shown over a period of time 120. The example of FIG. 2 provides a photon
   signal 118 with photon pulse or plurality of pulses of a green color spectrum 202 emitted from
   a photon emitter 106 for two (2) milliseconds, followed by a photon pulse or plurality of
   pulses of a far-red color spectrum 204 for a duration of two (2) milliseconds with a duration of
25 delay of two hundred (200) milliseconds of each pulse before the photon signal repeats with a
   photon pulse or plurality of pulses 202 emitted from the same photon emitter 106 for two
   milliseconds followed by a second photon pulse or plurality of pulses of a far-red color
   spectrum 204 for a duration of two milliseconds from the same photon emitter 114 (please
   note that FIG. 2 is a descriptive example of photon pulses emitted over time. FIG. 2 is not
30 drawn to scale and the amount of growth or egg production by the bird between pulses in FIG.
   2 is not necessarily to scale). While two photon pulses are shown in FIG. 2, as one skilled in
   the art will understand once they understand the invention, any number of pulses, from 1 to 15
   or even more, may be within a photon signal.

                                                     18
   The system of the present disclosure as described in FIGS. 1 and 2 allows for the manipulation
   and control of various responses by a bird through the cycling of one or more colors or
   spectrums of light at different times, durations and intensities, such as near-red, green, blue
   and far-red, allowing single pulses or multiple pulses of one spectrum with a delay before
 5 pulsing another spectrum. The pulsing of individual color spectrums in unison or individually
   for a duration with a delay between pulses allows for increased efficiency and speed from
   ovulation to finishing through control of the bird responses. The system described herein
   provides the ability to keep a bird in a particular response such as hunger or a specific mood.
10 By way of example, studies have shown that using the pulse of specific color spectrums to a
   bird, groups of birds may be induced to ovulate. At this point protocols may be changed on
   one group to encourage and allow for hunger or mood control.
   A variety of sources or devices may be used to produce photons from the photon emitters,
15 many of which are known in the art. However, an example of a devices or sources suitable for
   the emission or production of photons from a photon emitter include an LED, which may be
   packaged within an LED array designed to create a desired spectrum of photons. While LEDs
   are shown in this example, it will be understood by one skilled in the art that a variety of
   sources may be used for the emission of photons including but not limited to metal halide
20 light, fluorescent light, high-pressure sodium light, incandescent light and LEDs. Please note
   that if a metal halide light, fluorescent light, high-pressure sodium light, incandescent light is
   used with the methods, systems and apparatuses described herein, the proper use of these
   forms of photon emitters would be to modulate and then filter the light to control what
   wavelength for what duration is passed through.
25
   Embodiments of the present disclosure can apply to LEDs having various durations of photon
   emissions, including durations of photon emissions of specific color spectrums and intensity.
   The pulsed photon emissions of specific color spectrums within a photon signal may be longer
   or shorter depending on the bird in question, the age of the bird and how the emission will be
30 used in facilitating biochemical processes for bird growth.
   The use of an array of LEDs may be controlled to provide the optimal photon pulse of one or
   more color spectrums for specific bird ovulation or growth such as in chickens or turkeys. The
   user may simply select the photon pulse intensity, color spectrum, frequency and duty cycle

                                                    19
   for a particular type of bird to encourage efficient biological responses in birds. LED packages
   can be customized to meet each bird's specific requirements. By using packaged LED arrays
   with the customized pulsed photon emission, as discussed above, embodiments described
   herein may be used to control light to alter the shell thickness, bird weight, and sexual
 5 maturity within the target bird.
   FIG. 3 is a diagram of an example of a plurality of photon emitters 106 and 108 with LED
   arrays 300 as the source of photons from the photon emitter. As shown in FIG. 3, a photon
   emission modulation controller 104 is in communication by means of a plurality of photon
10 emitter control signals 136 with a plurality of photon emitters 106 and 108. As further shown
   in FIG. 3, each photon emitter 106 and 108, comprises an array of LEDs 302, 304, 306 and
   308. Each array of LEDs 302, 304, 306 and 308 and the circuitry to allow for the array of
   LEDs to communicate with the photon emission modulation controller 104 are contained in an
   LED array housing 310, 312, 314 and 316.
15
   As shown in FIG. 3, the shape of LED array is a circle, however as will be understood by one
   skilled in the art, the shape of the array may take a variety of forms based upon the needed
   biological response of the birds. The shape of the array may include but is not limited to,
   circular, square, rectangular, triangular, octagonal, pentagonal, rope lighting and a variety of
20 other shapes.
   The LED array housing 310, 312, 314 and 316 for each photon emitter 106 and 108, may be
   made of a variety of suitable materials including, but are not limited to, lastic, thermoplastic,
   and other types of polymeric materials. Composite materials or other engineered materials
25 may also be used. In some embodiments, the housing may be made by a plastic injection
   molding manufacturing process. In some embodiments, the housing may be transparent or
   semi-transparent and in any color.
   FIG. 4 is a diagram of an example of a plurality of photon emitters with a master photon
30 emitter in communication and control of one or more slave photon emitters, 400. As shown in
   FIG. 4, a master photon emitter 402 is in communication by means of a photon control signal
   136 with a series of slave photon emitters 404, 406, and 408. The master photon emitter 402
   contains a controller, such as the MLC (102 of FIGS. 1 and 2), as well as photon emission
   modulation controller (shown as 104 FIGS. 1 and 2) which controls the duration ON and

                                                    20
   intensity, duration OFF, and frequency of each specific color spectrum photon pulse within
   each photon signal from an array of LEDs housed within the master photon emitter 402 while
   also allowing the master photon emitter to control the duration ON and intensity, duration
   OFF, and frequency of each specific color spectrum photon pulse within each photon signal
 5 from each slave photon emitters 404, 406, and 408.
   Conversely, each slave photon emitter 404, 406, and 408 contains the circuitry to receive
   command signals 136 from the master photon emitter 402 and the circuitry necessary to emit a
   photon pulse of a specific spectrum from an array of LEDs (such as near-red, far-red, blue,
10 green or orange) housed within each slave photon emitter 404, 406, and 408. For clarity, each
   slave photon emitter does not contain a controller such as the MLC nor does the slave photon
   emitter 404, 406, and 408 contain a photon emission modulation controller. All commands and
   controls for the slave photon emitter 404, 406, and 408 are received from the master photon
   emitter 402. This master/slave system allows for sharing of a single power supply and
15 microcontroller. Master has the power supply and that power is also transferred to the slaves.
   Additionally, the master/slave system can be utilized to pulse photons in patterns to help
   stimulate the biological response in other birds.
   A bus system may be included in MLC of the master photon emitter 402 or in each slave
20 photon emitter 404, 406 and 408 to allow for the specific control by the master photon emitter
   402 of each individual slave photon emitter 404, 406 and 408. By way of example, the master
   photon emitter 402 may send a signal 136 to a specific slave photon emitter 404 commanding
   the slave photon emitter 404 to emit photon signal with a far-red pulse for a specific duration,
   while the master photon emitter 402 simultaneously sends a command signal 136 to a second
25 slave photon emitter 406 to emit a photon signal with green pulse for a specific duration.
   While this descriptive example shows an array, plurality or chain of three slave photon
   emitters 404, 406 and 408 in with a master photon emitter 402, it should be understood that
   this description is applicable to any such system with any number of slave photon emitters in
   communication and under the control of a master photon emitter, as will be understood by one
30 skilled in the art, once they understand the principles of the embodiments.
   In a further embodiment, the master photon emitter 402 may be hard wired or wireless to
   allow external access to the master photon emitter 402 by a host, allowing remote access to

                                                  21
   monitor the input and output of the master photon emitter 402 while also allowing for remote
   programming of the master photon emitter.
   FIG. 5 is a diagram of an example of a master logic controller in communication and control
 5 of one or more photon emitters, 500. As shown in FIG. 5, a master logic controller 102 is in
   communication by means of a photon emission control signal 136 with a series of photon
   emitters 106, 502, 504 and 506 located above four different birds 512, 514, 516 or 518. In this
   example, the master logic controller or MLC 102 (as previously discussed in FIGS. 1, 2 and 3)
   also contains a photon emission modulation controller 104 (shown discussed in FIGS. 1, 2 and
10 3) which allows the MLC 102 to control the duration ON and intensity, duration OFF, and
   frequency of each specific color spectrum photon pulse within a photon signal from an array
   of LEDs housed within each photon emitter 106, 502, 504 and 506.
   Through the photon emission modulation controller 104, the MLC 102 communicates
15 commands and instructions to each photon emitter 106, 502, 504 and 506 including but not
   limited to the duration ON, intensity, duration OFF and frequency of each specific color
   spectrum photon pulse within each photon signal 508 and 510 from each photon emitter 106,
   502, 504 and 506. The MLC 102 also maintains control of the power supply to the system and
   control the transfer of power to each individual photon emitter 106, 502, 504 and 506.
20
   As shown in FIG. 5, based on the instructions from the MLC 102, the photon emission
   modulation controller 104 sends a photon emission control signal 136 to each individual
   photon emitter 106, 502, 504 and 506. Based on the specific instructions sent to each photon
   emitter 106, 502, 504 and 506, individual photon emitters 106 or 506 will emit a photon signal
25 comprising repetitive photon pulses of one or more specific color spectrums 508 and 510 to a
   bird 512, 514, 516 or 518 (such as a photon signal with a far-red pulse and a near-red pulse
   508 at various durations ON and OFF or a photon signal with pulse of far-red, a pulse of near
   red and a pulse of blue at various durations ON and OFF 510). As further shown in FIG. 5,
   based on the instructions from the MLC 102, other individual photon emitters 502 or 504 may
30 not emit a photon signal toward a bird 122 for a duration.
   The ability of the MLC 102 to control the photon output or emission from each individual
   photon emitter 106, 502, 504 and 506 allows the system of the present disclosure to modify
   the photon emission to a bird based on the specific needs or requirements for a bird. As

                                                   22
   discussed in association with FIG. 2, by way of example, the MLC may be programmed to
   issue a signal to a specific emitter for modulation of pulses of far-red light for a period of time
   followed by pulses of blue light within a signal in combination with near-red light for the
   control of biological responses in birds such as ovulation/egg laying and mood/hunger.
 5
   In the example shown in FIG. 5, all commands and controls for each photon emitter 106, 502,
   504 and 506 are received externally from the MLC 102. However, as will be understood by
   one skilled in the art, the logic and hardware associated with the MLC 102 and photon
   emission modulation controller 104 may also be housed within each individual photon emitter,
10 allowing each individual photon emitter to be self-sufficient, without the need for an external
   control or logic unit.
   In a further embodiment, the MLC 102 may be hard wired or wireless, allowing external
   access to the MLC 102 by a user. This allows remote access by a user to monitor the input and
15 output of the MLC 102 while also allowing for remote programming of the MLC 102.
   FIG. 6 provides an example of a further embodiment, showing the photon modulation system
   of the present disclosure where one or more sensors are used to monitor a bird's environmental
   conditions as well as the bird's responses 600. As shown in FIG. 6, one or more sensors 602,
20 604, 606 and 608 are associated with each bird 618, 620, 622, and 624 in order to monitor
   various conditions associated with the bird 618, 620, 622, and 624. The conditions associated
   with the bird or birds which may be monitored include but are not limited to, humidity, air
   temperature, volume, movement, O.sub.2, CO.sub.2, CO, pH, and weight. As will be
   understood by one skilled in the art, the sensors may include but are not limited to temperature
25 sensor, an infrared sensor, motion sensor, microphones, gas sensors, cameras, and scales.
   The sensors 602, 604, 606 and 608 monitor one or more conditions associated with the bird or
   birds 618, 620, 622, and 624 and then transmit the data 610, 612, 614 or 616 to the MLC 102.
   Transferring the data from the one or more sensors 602, 604, 606 and 608 to the MLC 102 can
30 be accomplished in a number of ways, either wirelessly or hard wired. As will be understood
   by one skilled in art, a variety of communication systems may be used for the delivery of
   sensor-derived information from the bird 618, 620, 622, and 624 to the a MLC 102.

                                                   23
   The data from the one or more sensors 602, 604, 606 and 608 is analyzed by the MLC 102.
   Based on the information from the sensors, the MLC 102, through the photon emission
   modulation controller 104, the MLC 102 is able to adjust the duration ON, intensity, duration
   OFF, duty cycle and frequency of each specific color spectrum photon pulse of each photon
 5 signal 118 of each individual photon emitter 106, and 108, or to adjust the duration ON,
   intensity, duration OFF, duty cycle and frequency of a group of photon emitters based on the
   needs of the individual birds 618, 620, 622, and 624 associated with a specific sensor 602,
   604, 606 and 608 or the needs of the birds as a whole. An example may include adjusting a
   pulse to comprise both blue and far-red 118 at various durations or adjusting duration of a
10 pulse of far-red, green and blue 610.
   In additional embodiments, the system of the present disclosure may also include a watering
   system, feeding systems, environmental as well as health system (not shown in FIG. 6) in
   communication and under the control of the MLC 102 or a separate logic controller. Based on
15 information from the sensors 602, 604, 606 and 608 associated with each bird or birds, the
   MLC 102 is able to communicate with a watering system, feeding system, heating and cooling
   systems, medication systems based upon the needs of the birds. Data, including power can be
   sent to an outside receiver such as a database that is not connected to the system.
20 FIG. 7 provides an example of one embodiment of an array of LEDs in communication with a
   series of solid-state relays or SSRs 700. As shown in FIG. 7 and repeated from FIG. 1, a MLC
   102 is in communication by means of a communication signal 134 with a photon emission
   modulation controller 104. The photon emission modulation controller 104 of this example
   contains three SSRs. The MLC 102 outputs a signal to control the SSRs. The first SSR
25 controls an array of near-red LEDs 702, the second SSR controls an array of far-red LEDs 704
   and the third SSR to controls an array of blue LEDs 706. Each SSR 702, 704 and 706 is in
   communication with an array of LEDs, 714, 716 and 718 by means of a photon emission
   signal 136. As shown in FIG. 7, the near-red SSR 702 sends a photon emission signal 136 to
   initiate a photon pulse of the near-red LEDS 714 comprising a near-red voltage 708 to an array
30 of near-red LEDs 714. The near-red voltage 708 is then transmitted from the array of near-red
   LEDs 714 to a series of resistors 720, 742, 738, such as a 68 ohm resistor, with each resistor
   720, 742 and 738 connected to a ground 744.

                                                    24
   As further shown in FIG. 7, the far-red SSR 704 sends a photon emission signal 136 to initiate
   a photon pulse of far-red LEDs comprising a far-red voltage 710 to an array of red LEDs 718.
   The red voltage 710 is then transmitted from the red LED array 718 and a series of resistors
   724, 728, 732 and 734, such as 390 ohm resistor with each resistor 724, 728, 732 and 734
 5 connected to a ground 744. FIG. 7 also shows the blue SSR 706 sending a photon emission
   signal 136 to initiate a photon pulse of blue LEDs comprising a blue voltage 712 to an array of
   blue LEDs 716. The blue voltage 712 is then transmitted from the array of blue LEDs 716 and
   transmitted to a series of resistors 722, 726, 730, 736 and 740, such as a 150 ohm resistor, with
   each resistor 722, 726, 730, 736 and 740 connected to a ground 744.
10
   FIGS. 8a to 8d show various aspects of an example light assembly for the emission of photons
   within a signal for use in systems and methods described herein. FIG. 8a is a photo showing a
   power converter, serial peripheral interface (SPI), and microcontroller of a multiple colored
   die within a light assembly. FIG. 8b is a photo showing the backside of the multiple colored
15 die within the light assembly of FIG. 8a. FIG. 8c is a photo showing the high-speed switching
   circuitry for flashing of the multiple colored die within the light assembly of FIG. 8a. FIG. 8d
   is a photo showing the backside of the light assembly of FIG. 8c with a replaceable multicolor
   die LED.
20 The light assembly of FIGS. 8a to 8d may be used in several embodiments described herein,
   including a master/slave system, where a master photon emitter contains all logic and controls
   for the emission of photons and signals from the master photon emitter as well as any
   additional photon emitters in communication with the master photon emitter. The light
   assembly of FIGS. 8a-8d may also be used in a controller system. As discussed above,
25 controller is in communication with two or more photon emitters.
   FIG. 9 provides an example layout of LEDs within a LED array 900. As shown in FIG. 9,
   twelve LEDs form an array of photon emitters 302 in a photon emitter housing 310. The
   sample layout includes 400 nm (violet) 902, 436 nm (deep blue) 904, 450 nm (royal blue) 906,
30 460 nm (dental blue) 908, 490 nm (cyan) 910, 525 nm (green) 912, 590 nm (amber) 914, 625
   nm (red) 916, 660 nm (deep red) 918, and 740 nm (far red) 920.
   FIG. 10 is a flow diagram showing the method of modulation of individual color spectrums
   pulsed for bird growth 1000. As shown in FIG. 10, in step 1002, the master logic controller

                                                   25
   receives instructions regarding each individual color spectrum to be pulsed, the duration of
   each pulse of each color spectrum, the combination of colors to be pulsed and duration of
   delay between each color spectrum pulse. Instructions and information sent to the master logic
   controller may relate to the photon pulse duration of each color to be pulsed, photon pulse
 5 delay, intensity, frequency, duty cycle, bird type, state of maturity of the bird and the type of
   egg production as well as young and broiler bird growth and behavior that is desired to be
   induced. In step 1004, the master logic controller sends instructions to the photon emission
   modulation controller regarding each color spectrum to be pulsed, the duration of each pulse
   of each color spectrum, combination of colors pulse and duration of delay between different
10 color spectrums. In step 1006, the photon emission modulation controller sends at least one
   signal to one or more photon emitters capable of emitting pulses of one or more individual
   color spectrums toward a bird, such as green LEDs, far-red LEDs, blue LEDs and orange
   LEDs. In step 1008, one or more photon emitters emit one or more photon pulses of individual
   color spectrums directed to a bird.
15
   FIG. 11 provides an additional embodiment of the present disclosure, showing a flow diagram
   of the stimulation of a desired response of a bird based on information from bird sensors 1100.
   As shown in step 1102, a bird sensor monitors one or more conditions associated with the
   environment of a bird. The conditions to be monitored include, but are not limited to, the air
20 temperature, humidity, the bird's body temperature, weight, sound, movement of the birds,
   infrared, O.sub.2, CO.sub.2 and CO. In step 1104, the bird sensor sends data regarding the
   environmental or physical conditions associated with a bird to the MLC. The MLC then
   analyzes the data sent from the bird sensor or the analysis may be done by a third party
   software program that is remote to the system. In step 1106, based on the information from the
25 bird sensor, the MLC sends instructions to change an embodiment of the environment such as
   air temperature or humidity. In step 1108, the environmental system initiates an event to one
   or more animals based on the analysis of the data from the sensor. As will be understood by
   one skilled in the art, the adjustment of the event can be on a micro level, such as an
   adjustment to the environment of one specific bird or the adjustment can be on a macro level
30 such as an entire growth chamber or operation. In step 1110, based on the information from
   the bird sensor the MLC sends instructions to a feeding system, nutrient system or nutrient
   source, such as a drip, nutrient film or nutrient injection system, regarding the timing and/or
   concentration of the nutrient to be distributed to a bird during a nutrient event. In step 1112,
   nutrient system initiates a nutrient event where nutrients are directed to a bird based on the

                                                  26
   analysis of the data from the bird sensor. As will be understood by one skilled in the art, the
   adjustment of the nutrient event can be on a micro level, such as an adjustment to the nutrients
   to one specific bird or the adjustment can be on a macro level such as an entire growth
   chamber or operation. In step 1114, based on the analysis of the data from the bird sensor, the
 5 MLC sends instructions to the photon emission modulation controller adjusting the duration,
   intensity, color spectrum and/or duty cycle of each photon pulse between different pulses of
   color spectrums to a specific an animal or to a group of animals. In step 1116, the photon
   emission modulation controller sends a signal to one or more photon emitters adjusting the
   duration, intensity, color spectrum and/or duty cycle of each photon pulse between different
10 pulses of color spectrums to a specific animal or to a group of animals. In step 1118, based on
   the signal received from the photon emission modulation controller, one or more photon
   emitters emit one or more photon pulses of individual color spectrums directed to an animal or
   to a group of animals.
15 FIG. 12 is a graph showing an example photon signal with a repetitive photon pulse of near
   red, showing a duration ON and a duration OFF for the controlled stimulation of ovulation in
   birds and egg laying in birds. As shown in FIG. 12 and previously described in FIGS. 1-11, an
   example of the cycling of a photon signal with repetitive photon pulses of one color spectrums
   within the photon signal is provided where a photon signal having a repetitive near-red photon
20 pulse is emitted from a photon emitter. As shown in the graph near-red spectrum is pulsed first
   followed by a delay. Next, a second pulse comprising of near-red spectrum is again pulsed
   followed by a delay. This photon signal may be repeated indefinitely or until the bird
   ovulation and bird egg production under and receiving the photon pulses have reached their
   desired production amount. While in this descriptive example of a photon signal having a
25 repetitive photon pulse set comprising offset pulsing of one color spectrum, it should be
   understood that this description is applicable to any such system with other emissions of
   photon pulses over a period of time, as various combinations of pulses of color spectrums
   including but not limited to near-red, far-red, infra-red, green blue, yellow, orange and
   ultraviolet excluding the standard analog frequency lighting emission standards of the United
30 States of 60 Hz and Europe of 50 Hz. Examples of the photon pulse duration between pulses
   of each individual color spectrum or color spectrum combinations may include but are not
   limited to, 0.01 microseconds to 5000 milliseconds and all integers in between. The system of
   the present disclosure also allows for other durations between pulses of each individual color
   spectrum or color spectrum combinations including but not limited to 0.1 microsecond to 24

                                                    27
   hours, and all integers in between. The system of the present disclosure may be programmed
   to allow for variations of photon emission as well as variations of photon emission delay to
   allow for events such as extended dark cycles.
 5 FIG. 13 is a graph showing an example photon signal containing photon pulses of two color
   spectrums, near-red and far red. The time scale on this chart is not to scale but serves as an
   example embodiment exhibiting the variation of color spectrum, duration ON, duration OFF
   frequency and duty cycle within a photon signal that may be utilized to stimulate ovulation. As
   shown in FIG. 13 and previously described in FIGS. 1-11, another example of the cycling of
10 photon pulses of various color spectrum of the present disclosure is provided where a photon
   signal comprising photon pulses of two color spectrums are emitted from a photon emitter. As
   shown in the graph a far-red spectrum is pulsed first followed by a delay and then a pulse of a
   near-red spectrum and then followed by a delay. Next, a second pulse of near red is initiated,
   followed by a delay, followed by an individual pulse of far-red. This photon signal may be
15 repeated indefinitely or until the desired bird response has been initiated. As discussed above,
   this example may also be used to stimulate ovulation or to reset the bird's circadian rhythm.
   While in this descriptive example of a photon pulse set comprising offset pulsing of two color
   spectrums, it should be understood that this description is applicable to any such system with
   other emissions of photon pulses over a period of time, as various combinations of pulses of
20 color spectrums including but not limited to near-red, far-red, infra-red, green, blue, yellow,
   orange and ultraviolet excluding the standard analog frequency lighting emission standards of
   the United States of 60 Hz and Europe of 50 Hz. Examples of the photon pulse duration
   between pulses of each individual color spectrum or color spectrum combinations may include
   but is not limited to, 0.01 microseconds to 5000 milliseconds and all integers in between. The
25 system of the present disclosure also allows for other durations between pulses of each
   individual color spectrum or color spectrum combinations including but not limited to 0.1
   microsecond to 24 hours, and all integers in between. The system of the present disclosure
   may be programmed to allow for variations of photon emission as well as variations of photon
   emission delay to allow for events such as extended dark cycles.
30
   FIG. 14 is a graph showing a second example photon signal containing photon pulses of two
   color spectrums, near-red and far red. Again, the time scale on this chart is not to scale but
   serves as an example embodiment exhibiting the variation of color spectrum, duration ON,
   duration OFF frequency and duty cycle within a photon signal that may be utilized to stimulate

                                                  28
   ovulation. As shown in FIG. 14 and previously described in FIGS. 1-11, another example of
   the cycling of photon pulses of various color spectrum of the present disclosure is provided
   where photon signal comprising photon pulses of two color spectrums are emitted from a
   photon emitter. As shown in the graph, a far-red spectrum is pulsed in a series or pulse train of
 5 five pulses followed by a pulse of a near-red spectrum and then followed by a delay. This
   photon signal may be repeated indefinitely or until the desired bird response has been initiated.
   As discussed above, this example may also be used to stimulate ovulation or to reset the bird's
   circadian rhythm. While in this descriptive example of a photon pulse set comprising offset
   pulsing of two color spectrums, it should be understood that this description is applicable to
10 any such system with other emissions of photon pulses over a period of time, as various
   combinations of pulses of color spectrums including but not limited to near-red, far-red, infra
   red, green, blue, yellow, orange and ultraviolet; excluding the standard analog frequency
   lighting emission standards of the United States of 60 Hz and Europe of 50 Hz. Examples of
   the photon pulse duration between pulses of each individual color spectrum or color spectrum
15 combinations may include but are not limited to, 0.01 microseconds to 5000 milliseconds and
   all integers in between. The system of the present disclosure also allows for other durations
   between pulses of each individual color spectrum or color spectrum combinations including
   but not limited to 0.1 microsecond to 24 hours, and all integers in between. The system of the
   present disclosure may be programmed to allow for variations of photon emission as well as
20 variations of photon emission delay to allow for events such as extended dark cycles.
   FIG. 15 is a graph showing an example photon signal containing photon pulses of two color
   spectrums, blue and green. The time scale on this chart is not to scale but serves as an example
   embodiment exhibiting the variation of color spectrum, frequency and duty cycle that may be
25 utilized to stimulate hunger or a specific mood and to reset the circadian rhythm of the bird.
   As shown in FIG. 15 and previously described in FIGS. 1-11, another example of the cycling
   of photon pulses of various color spectrums of the present disclosure is provided where photon
   pulses of two color spectrums are emitted from a photon emitter. As shown in the graph pulses
   of blue and green are pulsed first followed by a delay. Next, a second pulse of blue is initiated,
30 followed by a delay, followed by an individual pulse of green. This cycle may be repeated
   indefinitely or until the desired bird response has been initiated. As discussed above, this
   example may also be used to stimulate hunger, mood or even to reset the birds circadian
   rhythm. While in this descriptive example of a photon pulse set comprising offset pulsing of
   two color spectrums, it should be understood that this description is applicable to any such

                                                  29
   system with other emissions of photon pulses over a period of time, as various combinations
   of pulses of color spectrums including but not limited to near-red, far-red, infra-red, green,
   blue, yellow, orange and ultraviolet; excluding the standard analog frequency lighting
   emission standards of the United States of 60 Hz and Europe of 50 Hz. Examples of the
 5 photon pulse duration between pulses of each individual color spectrum or color spectrum
   combinations may include but are not limited to, 0.01 microseconds to 5000 milliseconds and
   all integers in between. The system of the present disclosure also allows for other durations
   between pulses of each individual color spectrum or color spectrum combinations including
   but not limited to 0.1 microsecond to 24 hours, and all integers in between. The system of the
10 present disclosure may be programmed to allow for variations of photon emission as well as
   variations of photon emission delay to allow for events such as extended dark cycles.
   FIG. 16 graph showing an example photon signal containing photon pulses of three color
   spectrums, near-red, blue and green. The time scale on this chart is not to scale but serves as
15 an example embodiment exhibiting the variation of color spectrum, frequency and duty cycle
   that may be utilized to stimulate ovulation, hunger or a specific mood and to reset the
   circadian rhythm of the bird. As shown in FIG. 16 and previously described in FIGS. 1-11,
   another example of the cycling of photon pulses of various color spectrums of the present
   disclosure is provided where photon pulses of three color spectrums are emitted from a photon
20 emitter. As shown in the graph, a pulse of near red is provided followed by a delay. Next, a
   pulse of blue is initiated, followed by a delay, followed by an individual pulse of green. This
   cycle may be repeated indefinitely or until the desired bird response has been initiated. As
   discussed above, this example may also be used to stimulate ovulation, hunger, mood or even
   to reset the bird's circadian rhythm. While in this descriptive example of a photon pulse set
25 comprising offset pulsing of three color spectrums, it should be understood that this
   description is applicable to any such system with other emissions of photon pulses over a
   period of time, as various combinations of pulses of color spectrums including but not limited
   to near-red, far-red, infra-red, green, blue, yellow, orange and ultraviolet; excluding the
   standard analog frequency lighting emission standards of the United States of 60 Hz and
30 Europe of 50 Hz. Examples of the photon pulse duration between pulses of each individual
   color spectrum or color spectrum combinations may include but are not limited to, 0.01
   microseconds to 5000 milliseconds and all integers in between. The system of the present
   disclosure also allows for other durations between pulses of each individual color spectrum or
   color spectrum combinations including but not limited to 0.1 microsecond to 24 hours, and all

                                                   30
   integers in between. The system of the present disclosure may be programmed to allow for
   variations of photon emission as well as variations of photon emission delay to allow for
   events such as extended dark cycles.
 5 FIG. 17 graph showing an example photon signal containing photon pulses of five color
   spectrums, green, ultra-violet, orange, near-red, and blue. The time scale on this chart is not to
   scale but serves as an example embodiment exhibiting the variation of color spectrum,
   frequency and duty cycle that may be utilized to stimulate ovulation, hunger or a specific
   mood and to reset the circadian rhythm of the bird. As shown in FIG. 17 and previously
10 described in FIGS. 1-11, another example of the cycling of photon pulses of various color
   spectrum within a signal of the present disclosure is provided where photon pulses of five
   color spectrums are emitted from a photon emitter. As shown in the graph, pulses of green and
   ultraviolet are provided followed by a delay. Next, a pulse of near red is initiated, followed by
   a delay, followed by pulses of green and ultraviolet. This cycle may be repeated with five
15 pulses of green and ultraviolet and three pulses of near red and then a single pulse of blue and
   orange. This pulse signal may be repeated indefinitely or until the desired bird response has
   been initiated under. As discussed above, this example may also be used to stimulate
   ovulation, hunger, mood or even to reset the bird's circadian rhythm. While in this descriptive
   example of a photon pulse set comprising offset pulsing of three color spectrums, it should be
20 understood that this description is applicable to any such system with other emissions of
   photon pulses over a period of time, as various combinations of pulses of color spectrums
   including but not limited to near-red, far-red, infra-red, green, blue, yellow, orange and
   ultraviolet; excluding the standard analog frequency lighting emission standards of the United
   States of 60 Hz and Europe of 50 Hz. Examples of the photon pulse duration between pulses
25 of each individual color spectrum or color spectrum combinations may include but are not
   limited to, 0.01 microseconds to 5000 milliseconds and all integers in between. The system of
   the present disclosure also allows for other durations between pulses of each individual color
   spectrum or color spectrum combinations including but not limited to 0.1 microsecond to 24
   hours, and all integers in between. The system of the present disclosure may be programmed
30 to allow for variations of photon emission as well as variations of photon emission delay to
   allow for events such as extended dark cycles.
   FIG. 18 is a graph showing a third example photon signal containing photon pulses of two
   color spectrums, near-red and far red. The time scale on this chart is not to scale but serves as

                                                  31
   an example embodiment exhibiting the variation of color spectrum, duration ON, duration
   OFF frequency and duty cycle within a photon signal that may be utilized to stimulate
   ovulation. As shown in FIG. 18 and previously described in FIGS. 1-11, another example of
   the cycling of photon pulses of various color spectrum within a signal of the present disclosure
 5 is provided where photon signal comprising photon pulses of two color spectrums are emitted
   from a photon emitter. As shown in the graph a far-red spectrum is pulsed first followed by a
   delay and then a pulse of a near-red spectrum and then followed by a delay. Next, a second
   pulse of near red is initiated followed by a delay followed by an individual pulse of far-red.
   This photon signal may be repeated indefinitely or until the desired bird response has been
10 initiated. As discussed above, this example may also be used to stimulate ovulation or to reset
   the bird's circadian rhythm. While in this descriptive example of a photon pulse set comprising
   offset pulsing of two color spectrums, it should be understood that this description is
   applicable to any such system with other emissions of photon pulses over a period of time, as
   various combinations of pulses of color spectrums including but not limited to near-red, far
15 red, infra-red, green, blue, yellow, orange and ultraviolet; excluding the standard analog
   frequency lighting emission standards of the United States of 60 Hz and Europe of 50 Hz.
   Examples of the photon pulse duration between pulses of each individual color spectrum or
   color spectrum combinations may include but are not limited to, 0.01 microseconds to 5000
   milliseconds and all integers in between. The system of the present disclosure also allows for
20 other durations between pulses of each individual color spectrum or color spectrum
   combinations including but not limited to 0.1 microseconds to 24 hours, and all integers in
   between. The system of the present disclosure may be programmed to allow for variations of
   photon emission as well as variations of photon emission delay to allow for events such as
   extended dark cycles.
25
   FIG. 19 is a graph showing an example photon signal containing photon pulses of two color
   spectrums, near-red and far red. The time scale on this chart is not to scale but serves as an
   example embodiment exhibiting the variation of color spectrum, duration ON with varying
   intensities, duration OFF frequency and duty cycle within a photon signal that may be utilized
30 to stimulate ovulation. As shown in FIG. 19 and previously described in FIGS. 1-11, another
   example of the cycling of photon pulses of various color spectrum of the present disclosure is
   provided where photon signal comprising photon pulses of two color spectrums are emitted
   from a photon emitter. As shown in the graph a far-red spectrum is pulsed first with a first
   intensity followed by a delay and then a pulse of far red and near-red spectrums with a

                                                   32
   different intensities and then followed by a delay. Next, a second pulse of near red and far red
   with different intensities followed by a delay followed by an individual pulse of far-red with a
   different intensity and then a near red with the same intensity. This photon signal may be
   repeated indefinitely or until the desired bird response has been receiving the photon pulses.
 5 As discussed above, this example may also be used to stimulate ovulation or to reset the bird's
   circadian rhythm. While in this descriptive example of a photon pulse set comprising offset
   pulsing of two color spectrums with varying intensities, it should be understood that this
   description is applicable to any such system with other emissions of photon pulses over a
   period of time, as various combinations of pulses of color spectrums including but not limited
10 to near-red, far-red, infra-red, green, blue, yellow, orange and ultraviolet; excluding the
   standard analog frequency lighting emission standards of the United States of 60 Hz and
   Europe of 50 Hz. Examples of the photon pulse duration between pulses of each individual
   color spectrum or color spectrum combinations may include but are not limited to, 0.01
   microseconds to 5000 milliseconds and all integers in between. The system of the present
15 disclosure also allows for other durations between pulses of each individual color spectrum or
   color spectrum combinations including but not limited to 0.1 microsecond to 24 hours, and all
   integers in between. The system of the present disclosure may be programmed to allow for
   variations of photon emission as well as variations of photon emission delay to allow for
   events such as extended dark cycles.
20
   Table 1 below provides a table of lighting options. As shown in Table 1, column one provides
   the name or designation of the lighting option or pulse signal, column two provides the color
   pulses in the lighting option, column three is the duration ON of each pulse within the pulse
   signal, column four is the duration OFF of each pulse within the pulse signal, column five
25 provides the time from ON to OFF, column six is the amperage of each color within the
   lighting option, and column seven is the duration or length of time each option is active on a
   24 hour basis.
30

                                     33
                                   Table 1
                           LIGHTING OPTIONS
                                                                   Duration
Lighting            Duration Duratio     Timing from t- Ma of each
         Colors                                                    of  system
Option              ON        n OFF      0              color
                                                                   on
         Near red 1                      ON -0          600        24 hours
Option 1            50us      200us
         Near red 2                      OFF- 50US
         Near red 1                      ON -0          600        24 hours
                    50us      50us
         Near red 2                      OFF- 50US
Option 2
                                         ON - 100 us    900        24 hours
         Far Red    50us      100us
                                         OFF- 150us
         Near red I                      ON-0           600        6 hours ON
                    50us      50us
         Near red 2                      OFF- 50US                 18 OFF
Option 3
                                         ON - 100 us    900        6 hours ON
         Far Red    50us      100us
                                         OFF- 150us                18 OFF
         Near red 1                      ON-0           600        24 hour
Option 4            50us      200us
         Near red 2                      OFF- 50US
         Near red I                      ON-0           600        6 hours ON
                    50us      100us
         Near red 2                      OFF- 50US                 18 OFF
Option 5
                                         ON - 150 us    900        6 hours ON
         Far Red    50us      500us
                                         OFF- 200us                18 OFF
         Near red I                      ON-0           600        6 hours ON
                    50us      50us
         Near red 2                      OFF- 50US                 18 OFF
Option 6
                                         ON - 100 us    900        6 hours ON
         Far Red    50us      100us
                                         OFF- 150us                18 OFF
                                         ON-0           600        24 hours on
         Green      50us      50us
                                         OFF- 50US
Option 7
                                         ON - 100 us    900        24 hours on
         Far Red    50us      100us
                                         OFF- 150us
                                         ON-0           600        24 hours on
         Blue       50us      50us
                                         OFF- 50US
Option 8
                                         ON - 100 us    900        24 hours on
         Far Red    50us      100us
                                         OFF- 150us

                                       34
                                     Table 1
                             LIGHTING OPTIONS
                                                                     Duration
Lighting              Duration Duratio     Timing from t- Ma of each
          Colors                                                     of system
Option                ON        n OFF      0              color
                                                                     on
          Near red I                       ON-0           600        6 hours ON
                      50us      100us
          Near red 2                       OFF- 50US                 18 OFF
Option 9
                                           ON - 150 us    600        6 hours ON
          Green       50us      500us
                                           OFF- 200us                18 OFF
          Near red I                       ON-0           600        6 hours ON
                      50us      100us
          Near red 2                       OFF- 50US                 18 OFF
Option 10
                                           ON - 150 us    600        6 hours ON
          Blue        50us      500us
                                           OFF- 200us                18 OFF
                                           ON -0          600        24    hours
          Near red 1  50us      100us
                                           OFF- 50US                 ON
                                           ON - 150 us    600        24    hours
Option 11 Blue        50us      500us
                                           OFF- 50US                 ON
                                           ON -0          600        24    hours
          Green       50us      50us
                                           OFF- 50US                 ON
                                           ON -0          600        24    hours
          Near red 1  50us      100us
                                           OFF- 50US                 ON
          Blue                             ON - 150 us    600        24    hours
Option 12             50us      500us
          Orange                           OFF- 50US                 ON
          Green                            ON -0          600        24    hours
                      50us      50us
          Ultraviolet                      OFF- 50US                 ON
                                           ON - 150 us    600        24    hours
          Blue        50us      50us
                                           OFF- 50US                 ON
Option 13
                                           ON -0          600        24    hours
          Green       50us      50us
                                           OFF- 50US                 ON
                                           ON - 150 us    600        24    hours
Option 14 Blue        50us      50us
                                           OFF- 50US                 ON
EXAMPLES

                                                   35
   The following examples are provided to illustrate further the various applications and are not
   intended to limit the invention beyond the limitations set forth in the appended claims.
                                  Increased Average Egg Production
 5 Six comparison studies were conducted in Greeley, Colo. in the winter and spring of 2016
   using the lighting system and method of the current disclosure and compared to eggs produced
   in a commercially egg production system, using standard commercially available lights.
   Eggs produced under the system of the present application described herein were produced in
10 compliance with the United Egg Producers Animal Husbandry Guidelines using various
   strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets. Birds were housed in cages in blackout
   grow tents, with one bird per cage, and eight birds per tent. Birds were fed an all-natural,
   100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly of corn, soybean meal, limestone, vitamins
   and minerals, matching the diets, feeding and watering times for the commercial comparison
15 birds.
   The commercial comparison for egg production was a conventional egg production facility
   located in northern Colorado. All eggs were produced in compliance with the United Egg
   Producers Animal Husbandry Guidelines using various strains of white leghorn varieties
20 raised from pullets. Birds were fed all natural, 100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly
   of corn, soybean meal, limestone, vitamins and minerals. No hormones or stimulants were
   used. The commercial comparison egg producing birds were housed under a computerized
   environment management system, which monitors and controls fans and temperature, the
   fluorescent lighting, turning feeders on and off and monitors the amount of water consumed.
25 Eggs produced where counted every morning at 9 am and weighed using a common scale.
                                              Example 1
                            Average Egg Production--Lighting Option One
30 Table 2 shows a comparison of the average egg production rate to the total number of birds of
   the system and method of the current application using lighting Option 1 (Table 1) when
   compared with average egg production rate to the total number of birds in a conventional
   production facility using conventional commercial lighting.

                                                  36
   As shown in Table 2 and illustrated in FIG. 20, the comparison began with birds (chickens) 18
   weeks old. Birds grown under the lighting of the system of the current application showed egg
   production beginning in week 19, with 21.43% of birds producing eggs in week 20, 55.36% in
   week 21 and finally reaching 100% production, or all birds producing eggs in week 26.
 5 Conversely, the commercial comparison lighting systems began producing eggs in week 20,
   3.78%, with 25.44% production in week 21, with 96.27% in week 26. As shown in Table 2, an
   increased percentage of birds grown under the lighting of the current application produced
   eggs from weeks 18 to 36 when compared to birds grown or living under a commercial
   lighting system.
10
                            Table 2 - Average egg production per day
                                          Lighting Option 1
                                  Percentage     of   eggs
                                  production     to   total
                                                            Commercial Comparison
                                  number of birds using Avg./Day
                                  the technology of the
                                  present disclosure
             Week 18              0                         0.00%
             Week 19               1.79%                    0.00%
             Week 20              21.43%                    3.78%
             Week 21              55.36%                    25.44%
             Week 22              76.79%                    62.17%
             Week 23              83.93%                    76.82%
             Week 24              89.29%                    81.76%
             Week 25              91.07%                    97.12%
             Week 26               100.00%                  90.60%
             Week 27              94.64%                    95.49%
             Week 28               100.00%                  96.27%
             Week 29              98.21%                    95.18%
             Week 30               100.00%                  97.12%
             Week 31              98.21%                    95.92%
             Week 32              98.21%                    96.12%
             Week 33              98.2%                     93.89%

                                                  37
                              Table 2 - Average egg production per day
                                          Lighting Option 1
                                  Percentage     of   eggs
                                  production     to   total
                                                             Commercial Comparison
                                  number of birds using
                                  the technology of the
                                  present disclosure
             Week 34              96.4%                      94.08%
             Week 35              98.2%                      93.30%
             Week 36              98.2%                      96.04%
                                             Example 2
                           Average Egg Production--Lighting Option Two
 5
   Table 3 shows a comparison of the average egg production rate to the total number of birds of
   the system and method of the current application using lighting Option 2 (Table 1), when
   compared with average egg production rate to the total number of birds in a conventional
   production facility using conventional commercial lighting.
10
   As shown in Table 3 and illustrated in FIG. 21, the comparison began with birds (chickens) 18
   weeks old. Birds grown under the lighting of the system of the current application showed egg
   production beginning in week 19, with 25.00% of birds producing eggs in week 20, 71.43% in
   week 21 and finally reaching 100% production, or all birds producing eggs in week 28.
15 Conversely, the commercial comparison lighting systems began producing eggs in week 20,
   3.78%, with 25.44% production in week 21, with 96.27% in week 26. As shown in Table 3, an
   increased percentage of birds grown under the lighting of the current application produced
   eggs from weeks 18 to 36 when compared to birds grown or living under a commercial
   lighting system.
20

                                              38
                          Table 3 - Average egg production per day
                                      Lighting Option 2
                              Percentage     of   eggs
                              production     to    total
                                                         Commercial Comparison
                              number of birds using
                              the technology of the
                              present disclosure
           Week 18            0                          0.00%
           Week 19             3.57%                     0.00%
           Week 20             25.00%                    3.78%
           Week 21            71.43%                     25.44%
           Week 22            92.86%                     62.17%
           Week 23            96.43%                     76.82%
           Week 24            96.43%                     81.76%
           Week 25            92.86%                     97.12%
           Week 26            98.21%                     90.60%
           Week 27            96.43%                     95.49%
           Week 28             100.00%                   96.27%
           Week 29            91.07%                     95.18%
           Week 30            96.43%                     97.12%
           Week 31            98.21%                     95.92%
           Week 32            92.86%                     96.12%
           Week 33            92.86%                     93.89%
           Week 34             87.50%                    94.08%
           Week 35             89.29%                    93.30%
           Week 36            92.86%                     96.04%
                                          Example 3
                      Average Egg Production--Lighting Option Three
5 Table 4 shows a comparison of the average egg production rate to the total number of birds of
  the system and method of the current application using lighting Option 3 (Table 1), when

                                                  39
   compared with average egg production rate to the total number of birds in a conventional
   production facility using conventional commercial lighting.
   As shown in Table 4 and illustrated in FIG. 22, the comparison began with birds (chickens) 18
 5 weeks old. Birds grown under the lighting of the system of the current application showed egg
   production beginning in week 19, with 17.86% of birds producing eggs in week 20, 64.29% in
   week 21 and finally reaching 100% production, or all birds producing eggs in week 24.
   Conversely, the commercial comparison lighting systems began producing eggs in week 20,
   3.78%, with 25.44% production in week 21, with 96.27% in week 26. As shown in Table 4
10 and illustrated in FIG. 22, an increased percentage of birds grown under the lighting of the
   current application produced eggs from weeks 18 to 36 when compared to birds grown or
   living under a commercial lighting system.
                              Table 4 - Average egg production per day
                                          Lighting Option 3
                                  Percentage     of   eggs
                                  production     to   total
                                                             Commercial Comparison
                                  number of birds using
                                  the technology of the
                                  present disclosure
              Week 18             0                          0.00%
              Week 19             5.36%                      0.00%
              Week 20              17.86%                    3.78%
              Week 21             64.29%                     25.44%
              Week 22             85.71%                     62.17%
              Week 23             98.21%                     76.82%
              Week 24              100.00%                   81.76%
              Week 25             98.21%                     97.12%
              Week 26             94.64%                     90.60%
              Week 27             96.43%                     95.49%
              Week 28             98.21%                     96.27%
              Week 29             94.64%                     95.18%
              Week 30             94.64%                     97.12%

                                                  40
                            Table 4 - Average egg production per day
                                          Lighting Option 3
                                  Percentage     of   eggs
                                  production     to   total
                                                             Commercial Comparison
                                  number of birds using
                                  the technology of the
                                  present disclosure
             Week 31              100.00%                    95.92%
             Week 32              94.64                      96.12%
             Week 33              94.64%                     93.89%
             Week 34              94.64%                     94.08%
             Week 35              91.07%                     93.30%
             Week 36              91.07%                     96.04%
                                             Example 4
                          Average Egg Production--Lighting Option Four
 5
   Table 5 shows a comparison of the average egg production rate to the total number of birds of
   the system and method of the current application using lighting Option 4, when compared with
   average egg production rate to the total number of birds in a conventional production facility
   using conventional commercial lighting.
10
   As shown in Table 5 and illustrated in FIG. 23, the comparison began with birds (chickens) 18
   weeks old. Birds grown under the lighting of the system of the current application showed egg
   production beginning in week 18, with 25.00% of birds producing eggs in week 20, 42.86% in
   week 21 and finally reaching 96.43% production, or all birds producing eggs in week 24.
15 Conversely, the commercial comparison lighting systems began producing eggs in week 20,
   3.78%, with 25.44% production in week 21, with 96.27% in week 26. As shown in Table 5, an
   increased percentage of birds grown under the lighting of the current application produced
   eggs from weeks 18 to 36 when compared to birds grown or living under a commercial
   lighting system.
20

                                                41
                           Table 5 - Average egg production per day
                                        Lighting Option 4
                                Percentage     of   eggs
                                production     to    total
                                                            Commercial Comparison
                                number of birds using
                                the technology of the
                                present disclosure
            Week 18             0.00%                       0.00%
            Week 19             3.57%                       0.00%
            Week 20             25.00%                      3.78%
            Week 21             42.86%                      25.44%
            Week 22             51.79%                      62.17%
            Week 23             80.36%                      76.82%
            Week 24             96.43%                      81.76%
            Week 25             80.36%                      97.12%
            Week 26             98.21%                      90.60%
            Week 27             96.43%                      95.49%
            Week 28             92.86%                      96.27%
            Week 29             98.21%                      95.18%
            Week 30             94.64%                      97.12%
            Week 31             91.07%                      95.92%
            Week 32             92.85%                      96.12%
            Week 33             9.42%                       93.89%
            Week 34             92.85%                      94.08%
            Week 35             94.64%                      93.30%
            Week 36             96.43%                      96.04%
                                           Example 5
                        Average Egg Production--Lighting Option Five
5 Table 6 shows a comparison of the average egg production rate to the total number of birds of
  the system and method of the current application using lighting Option 5, when compared with

                                                  42
   average egg production rate to the total number of birds in a conventional production facility
   using conventional commercial lighting.
   As shown in Table 6 and illustrated in FIG. 24, the comparison began with birds (chickens) 18
 5 weeks old. Birds grown under the lighting of the system of the current application showed egg
   production beginning in week 18, with 37.50% of birds producing eggs in week 20, 66.07% in
   week 21 and finally reaching 100% production, or all birds producing eggs in week 24.
   Conversely, the commercial comparison lighting systems began producing eggs in week 20,
   3.78%, with 25.44% production in week 21, with 96.27% in week 26. As shown in Table 6, an
10 increased percentage of birds grown under the lighting of the current application produced
   eggs from weeks 18 to 36 when compared to birds grown or living under a commercial
   lighting system.
                            Table 6 - Average egg production per day
                                          Lighting Option 5
                                  Percentage     of   eggs
                                  production     to   total
                                                            Commercial Comparison
                                  number of birds using     Avg./Day
                                  the technology of the
                                  present disclosure
             Week 18               1.79%                    0.00%
             Week 19              8.93%                     0.00%
             Week 20              37.50%                    3.78%
             Week 21              66.07%                    25.44%
             Week 22              91.07%                    62.17%
             Week 23              96.43%                    76.82%
             Week 24               100.00%                  81.76%
             Week 25              98.21%                    97.12%
             Week 26              92.86%                    90.60%
             Week 27              96.43%                    95.49%
             Week 28              98.21%                    96.27%
             Week 29               100.00%                  95.18%

                                                 43
             Week 30              96.43%                     97.12%
             Week 31              100.00%                    95.92%
             Week 32              92.86%                     96.12%
             Week 33              96.43%                     93.89%
             Week 34              91.07%                     94.08%
             Week 35              98.21%                     93.30%
             Week 36              94.64%                     96.04%
                                             Example 6
                          Average Egg Production--Lighting Option Six
 5
   Table 7 shows a comparison of the average egg production rate to the total number of birds of
   the system and method of the current application using lighting Option 6, when compared with
   average egg production rate to the total number of birds in a conventional production facility
   using conventional commercial lighting.
10
   As shown in Table 7 and illustrated in FIG. 25, the comparison began with birds (chickens) 18
   weeks old. Birds grown under the lighting of the system of the current application showed egg
   production beginning in week 19, with 44.64% of birds producing eggs in week 20, 66.07% in
   week 21 and finally reaching 105.36% production, or all birds producing eggs in week 23.
15 Conversely, the commercial comparison lighting systems began producing eggs in week 20,
   3.78%, with 25.44% production in week 21, with 96.27% in week 26. As shown in Table 7, an
   increased percentage of birds grown under the lighting of the current application produced
   eggs from weeks 18 to 36 when compared to birds grown or living under a commercial
   lighting system.
20
25

                                                44
                           Table 7 - Average egg production per day
                                        Lighting Option 6
                               Percentage      of   eggs
                               production      to   total
                                                           Commercial Comparison
                               number of birds using
                               the technology of the
                               present disclosure
           Week 18             0.00%                       0.00%
           Week 19              10.71%                     0.00%
           Week 20             44.64%                      3.78%
           Week 21              66.07%                     25.44%
           Week 22             94.64%                      62.17%
           Week 23              105.36%                    76.82%
           Week 24             94.64%                      81.76%
           Week 25              87.50%                     97.12%
           Week 26              105.36%                    90.60%
           Week 27             96.43%                      95.49%
           Week 28             94.64%                      96.27%
           Week 29             96.43%                      95.18%
           Week 30             96.43%                      97.12%
           Week 31             96.43%                      95.92%
           Week 32             96.43%                      96.12%
           Week 33             0.00%                       93.89%
           Week 34              10.71%                     94.08%
           Week 35             44.64%                      93.30%
           Week 36              66.07%                     96.04%
                                            Example 7
             Average Egg Production--Comparison with Standard Lighting and Time
5 Example 7 provides a comparison study of average egg production rate. The study was
  conducted in Greeley, Colo. in the summer of 2016 using three lighting systems, Lighting
  Option 4 (shown in Table 1) of the lighting method of the current disclosure but on a standard

                                                 45
   commercial day/night cycle (15 hours ON at week 17 with a 15 minute increase each week), a
   control with standard fluorescent lighting on a standard commercial day/night cycle, and
   Lighting Option 4 using the lighting method of the current disclosure.
 5 Eggs were produced in compliance with the United Egg Producers Animal Husbandry
   Guidelines using various strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets. Birds were
   housed in cages in blackout grow tents, with one bird per cage, and eight birds per tent. Birds
   were fed an all-natural, 100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly of corn, soybean meal,
   limestone, vitamins and minerals, matching the diets, feeding and watering times for the
10 commercial comparison birds.
   As shown in Table 8 below (and in FIG. 26), birds in the comparison produced a small amount
   of eggs (5.36%) starting in week 17 with the control, however birds grown under Lighting
   Option 4 (24 hour (column 4)) quickly surpassed by week 19 standard production levels both
15 for the control (column 3) and the average (column 5, see Management Guide, W-36
   Commercial Layers, published by Hy-Line International, January 2016). By week 22, both the
   birds grown under Lighting Option 4 on a 24 hour cycle and birds grown under Lighting
   Option 4 on a commercial standard day/night timing showed an increase in production over
   the control and the commercial average, with birds grown under Lighting Option 4 on a 24
20 hour cycle producing at 98.21%, birds grown under Lighting Option 4 on a commercial
   standard day/night timing producing at 91.07% s, while birds grown under the control
   producing at 78.57% and the commercial average at 85.00%.
25
30

                                                   46
                                                Table 8
                                        Average Egg Production
                             Comparison Study with Commercial Control
                       Lighting Option 4                    Lighting option 4 on a    Commercial
                        with commercial         Control         24 hour cycle          Average
                         standard timing
       Week   17                                 5.36%
       Week   18                                17.86%              1.79%                2.50%
       Week   19                                26.79%             51.79%               18.50%
       Week   20             17.86%             44.64%             60.71%               42.50%
       Week   21             76.79%             62.50%             105.36%              68.50%
       Week   22             91.07%             78.57%             98.21%               85.00%
                                    Increased Average Egg Weight
   Six poultry egg weight studies were conducted in Greeley, Colorado in the winter and spring
   of 2016 using the lighting system and method of the current disclosure and compared standard
 5 commercial    chicken egg weights       for white leghorn varieties     raised under standard
   commercially available lights (see Hy-Line International, January 2016).
   Birds raised under the lighting of the system and methods of the current disclosure were raised
   in compliance with the United Egg Producers Animal Husbandry Guidelines using various
10 strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets. Birds were housed in cages in blackout
   grow tents, with one bird per cage, and eight birds per tent. Birds were fed an all-natural,
   100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly of corn, soybean meal, limestone, vitamins
   and minerals, matching the diets, feeding and watering times for the commercial comparison
   birds. Egg weights were captured using a digital scale and measured on a daily basis at 9 am.
15
                                               Example 8
                             Average Egg Weight - Lighting Option One
   Table 9 shows a comparison of the average bird weight of the system and method of the
   current application using lighting Option One (Table 1) when compared with the commercial
20 average bird weight.
   As shown in Table 9 and illustrated in Figure 27, the average egg weight comparison began
   with birds (chickens) 18 weeks old birds raised under the lighting of the system of the current
   application showed egg production beginning in week 19, with an average weight of 1.495 oz.,

                                                  47
   at 20 weeks, average egg weight was 1.803 oz., with average egg weight reaching 2.00 oz. at
   week 25, increasing to 2.10 oz. in week 29, 2.17 oz. in week 35. Conversely, the average egg
   weight of eggs produced under the commercial comparison lighting system showed at average
   egg weight of 1.65 oz. in week 21, 1.90 oz. in week 24, 1.99 in week 25 and maxing out at
 5 2.13 in week 35. As shown in Table 8, eggs produced under lighting of the technology of
   current application produced eggs from weeks 18 to 36 with an average increased egg weight
   of 0.07 when compared to birds grown or living under a commercial lighting system.
                             Table 9 - Average egg weight in ounces (oz.)
                                           Lighting Option 1
                 Average egg weight
                 using the technology      Commercial Comparison          Difference between
                     of the present              Avg. weight                    systems
                      disclosure
    Week 18               0.00                       0.00
    Week 19               1.495                      0.00
    Week   20        1.803387097                     0.00
    Week   21        1.882093023                 1.653333333                      0.23
    Week   22        1.864893617                 1.795555556                      0.07
    Week   23        1.835612245                 1.866666667                      -0.03
    Week 24          1.994117647                 1.902222222                      0.09
    Week 25          2.001196429                 1.991111111                      0.01
    Week 26          2.032075472                 1.973333333                      0.06
    Week 27          2.081696429                 2.008888889                      0.08
    Week 28          2.066727273                 1.991111111                      0.07
    Week 29          2.106071429                 2.008888889                      0.10
    Week 30          2.004351852                 2.026666667                      -0.02
    Week 31          2.099636364                 2.026666667                      0.07
    Week 32              2.1074                  2.044444444                      0.06
    Week 33          2.119181818                 2.044444444                      0.07
    Week 34          2.150740741                 2.044444444                      0.11
    Week 35               2.17                   2.133333333                      0.04
    Week 36          2.169636364                 2.044444444                      0.12
                            Average difference                                  0.07 oz.
10
15

                                                  48
                                              Example 9
                            Average Egg Weight - Lighting Option Two
 5 Table 10 shows a comparison of the average egg weight of the system and method of the
   current application using lighting Option Two (Table 1) when compared with average egg
   weight in a conventional production facility using conventional commercial lighting.
   As shown in Table 10 and illustrated in Figure 28, the average egg weight comparison began
   with birds (chickens) 18 weeks old. Birds raised under the lighting of the system of the current
10 application showed egg production beginning in week 19, with an average weight of 1.52 oz.,
   at 20 weeks, average egg weight was 1.65 oz., with average egg weight reaching 1.86 oz. at
   week 25, increasing to 1.95 oz. in week 29, and 2.03 oz. in week 35. Conversely, the average
   egg weight of eggs produced under the commercial comparison lighting system showed at
   average egg weight of 1.65 oz. in week 21, 1.90 oz. in week 24, 1.99 in week 25 and maxing
15 out at 2.13 in week 35.
                           Table 10 - Average egg weight in ounces (oz.)
                                          Lighting Option 2
                                  Average     egg    weight  Commercial Comparison
                                  with current application
                                                             Avg. weight
                                  system
             Week 18                                         0.00
             Week 19               1.515                     0.00
             Week 20               1.652916667               0.00
             Week 21               1.78125                   1.653333333
             Week 22               1.828173077               1.795555556
             Week 23               1.849907407               1.866666667
             Week 24               1.866574074               1.902222222
             Week 25               1.861980769               1.991111111
             Week 26               1.916909091               1.973333333
             Week 27               1.926574074               2.008888889
             Week 28               1.9305                    1.991111111

                                                  49
                           Table 10 - Average egg weight in ounces (oz.)
                                          Lighting Option 2
                                   Average    egg    weight
                                                             Commercial Comparison
                                   with current application
                                                             Avg. weight
                                   system
             Week 29               1.955784314               2.008888889
             Week 30               2.004351852               2.026666667
             Week 31               2.012909091               2.026666667
             Week 32               1.977980769               2.044444444
             Week 33               2.062980769               2.044444444
             Week 34               2.061326531               2.044444444
             Week 35               2.0282                    2.133333333
             Week 36               2.016923077               2.044444444
                                             Example 10
                            Average Egg Weight--Lighting Option Three
 5
   Table 11 shows a comparison of the average egg weight of the system and method of the
   current application using lighting Option Three (Table 1) when compared with average egg
   weight in a conventional production facility using conventional commercial lighting.
10 As shown in Table 11 and illustrated in FIG. 29, the average egg weight comparison began
   with birds (chickens) 18 weeks old. Birds raised under the lighting of the system of the current
   application showed egg production beginning in week 19, with an average weight of 1.54 oz.,
   at 20 weeks the average egg weight was 1.70 oz., with average egg weight reaching 2.00 oz. at
   week 28, increasing to 2.04 oz. in week 32, and 2.11 oz. in week 35. Conversely, the average
15 egg weight of eggs produced under the commercial comparison lighting system showed at
   average egg weight of 1.65 oz. in week 21, 1.90 oz. in week 24, 1.99 in week 25 and maxing
   out at 2.13 in week 35.

                                                 50
                          Table 11 - Average egg weight in ounces (oz.)
                                         Lighting Option 3
                                 Average     egg    weight
                                                            Commercial Comparison
                                 with current application
                                                            Avg. weight
                                 system
            Week 18                                         0.00
            Week 19               1.42                      0.00
            Week 20               1.5445                    0.00
            Week 21               1.695556                  1.653333333
            Week 22               1.774063                  1.795555556
            Week 23               1.834091                  1.866666667
            Week 24               1.878125                  1.902222222
            Week 25               1.901545                  1.991111111
            Week 26               1.938173                  1.973333333
            Week 27               1.960741                  2.008888889
            Week 28              2.000545                   1.991111111
            Week 29              2.011415                   2.008888889
            Week 30              2.003396                   2.026666667
            Week 31              2.036161                   2.026666667
            Week 32              2.046132                   2.044444444
            Week 33               1.993491                  2.044444444
            Week 34              2.011038                   2.044444444
            Week 35              2.113235                   2.133333333
            Week 36              2.058627                   2.044444444
                                            Example 11
                           Average Egg Weight--Lighting Option Four
5 Table 12 shows a comparison of the average egg weight of the system and method of the
  current application using lighting Option Four (Table 1) when compared with average egg
  weight in a conventional production facility using conventional commercial lighting.

                                                 51
  As shown in Table 12 and illustrated in FIG. 30, the average egg weight comparison began
  with birds (chickens) 18 weeks old. Birds raised under the lighting of the system of the current
  application showed egg production beginning in week 19, with an average weight of 1.61 oz.,
  at 20 weeks the average egg weight was 1.61 oz., with average egg weight reaching 2.02 oz. at
5 week 32, and increasing to 2.06 oz. in week 34. Conversely, the average egg weight of eggs
  produced under the commercial comparison lighting system showed at average egg weight of
  1.65 oz. in week 21, 1.90 oz. in week 24, 1.99 in week 25 and maxing out at 2.13 in week 35.
                          Table 12 - Average egg weight in ounces (oz.)
                                         Lighting Option 4
                                  Average    egg    weight Commercial Comparison
                                  with current application
                                                            Avg. weight
                                  system
            Week 18                                         0.00
            Week 19               1.515                     0.00
            Week 20               1.609643                  0.00
            Week 21               1.684375                  1.653333333
            Week 22               1.756034                  1.795555556
            Week 23               1.797273                  1.866666667
            Week 24               1.844906                  1.902222222
            Week 25               1.833667                  1.991111111
            Week 26               1.884364                  1.973333333
            Week 27               1.888611                  2.008888889
            Week 28               1.895115                  1.991111111
            Week 29               1.926273                  2.008888889
            Week 30               1.971434                  2.026666667
            Week 31               1.985392                  2.026666667
            Week 32               2.020192                  2.044444444
            Week 33               2.03                      2.044444444
            Week 34               2.055096                  2.044444444
            Week 35               1.98283                   2.133333333
            Week 36               2.024278                  2.044444444

                                                  52
                                             Example 12
                            Average Egg Weight--Lighting Option Five
 5 Table 13 shows a comparison of the average egg weight of the system and method of the
   current application using lighting Option Five (Table 1) when compared with average egg
   weight in a conventional production facility using conventional commercial lighting.
   As shown in Table 13 and illustrated in FIG. 31, the average egg weight comparison began
10 with birds (chickens) 18 weeks old. Birds raised under the lighting of the system of the current
   application showed egg production beginning in week 19, with an average weight of 1.594 oz.,
   at 20 weeks, average egg weight was 1.692 oz., with average egg weight reaching 2.00 oz. at
   week 29, and increasing to 2.08 oz. in week 33. Conversely, the average egg weight of eggs
   produced under the commercial comparison lighting system showed at average egg weight of
15 1.65 oz. in week 21, 1.90 oz. in week 24, 1.99 in week 25 and maxing out at 2.13 in week 35.
   As shown in Table 8, eggs produced under lighting of the technology of current application
   produced eggs from weeks 18 to 36 with an average increased egg weight of 0.07 when
   compared to birds grown or living under a commercial lighting system.
                           Table 13 - Average egg weight in ounces (oz.)
                                          Lighting Option 5
                                  Average     egg    weight  Commercial Comparison
                                   with current application
                                                             Avg. weight
                                   system
             Week 18              0.00                       0.00
             Week 19               1.594                     0.00
             Week 20               1.692619048               0.00
             Week 21               1.806857143               1.653333333
             Week 22               1.859791667               1.795555556
             Week 23               1.876759259               1.866666667
             Week 24               1.912857143               1.902222222
             Week 25               1.918545455               1.991111111
             Week 26               1.925784314               1.973333333

                                                  53
             Week 27              1.961944444                2.008888889
             Week 28              1.992181818                1.991111111
             Week 29              2.009732143                2.008888889
             Week 30              2.044722222                2.026666667
             Week 31              2.040982143                2.026666667
             Week 32              2.041673077                2.044444444
             Week 33              2.080092593                2.044444444
             Week 34              2.028823529                2.044444444
             Week 35              2.081090909                2.133333333
             Week 36              2.052075472                2.044444444
                                             Example 13
                             Average Egg Weight--Lighting Option Six
 5 Table 13 shows a comparison of the average egg weight of the system and method of the
   current application using lighting Option Six (Table 1) when compared with average egg
   weight in a conventional production facility using conventional commercial lighting.
   As shown in Table 14 and illustrated in FIG. 32, the average egg weight comparison began
10 with birds (chickens) 18 weeks old. Birds raised under the lighting of the system of the current
   application showed egg production beginning in week 19, with an average weight of 1.634 oz.,
   at 20 weeks, average egg weight was 1.728 oz., with average egg weight reaching 2.00 oz. at
   week 25, increasing to 2.10 oz. in week 33 and continuing to increase to 2.17 oz. by week 36.
   Conversely, the average egg weight of eggs produced under the commercial comparison
15 lighting system showed at average egg weight of 1.65 oz. in week 21, 1.90 oz. in week 24,
   1.99 in week 25 and maxing out at 2.13 in week 35. As shown in Table 8, eggs produced
   under lighting of the technology of current application produced eggs from weeks 18 to 36
   with an average increased egg weight of 0.07 when compared to birds grown or living under a
   commercial lighting system.
20

                                                 54
                          Table 14 - Average egg weight in ounces (oz.)
                                          Lighting Option 6
                                  Average egg weight with      Commercial Comparison
                                  current application system   Avg. weight
            Week 18               0                            0.00
            Week 19               1.634                        0.00
            Week 20               1.7282                       0.00
            Week 21               1.821857143                  1.653333333
            Week 22               1.865098039                  1.795555556
            Week 23               1.934224138                  1.866666667
            Week 24               1.958113208                  1.902222222
            Week 25               2.001734694                  1.991111111
            Week 26               2.011440678                  1.973333333
            Week 27               2.024074074                  2.008888889
            Week 28               2.046415094                  1.991111111
            Week 29               2.056574074                  2.008888889
            Week 30               2.108888889                  2.026666667
            Week 31               2.09                         2.026666667
            Week 32               2.10                         2.044444444
            Week 33               2.12                         2.044444444
            Week 34               2.16                         2.044444444
            Week 35               2.13                         2.133333333
            Week 36               2.17                         2.044444444
          Example 14 Average Egg Weight--Comparison with Standard Lighting and Time
 5 Example 14 provides a comparison study of average egg weight. The study was conducted in
   Greeley, Colo. in the summer of 2016 using three lighting system, the Lighting Option 4
   (shown in Table 1) of the lighting method of the current disclosure but on a standard
   commercial day/night cycle (15 hours ON at week 17 with a 15 minute increase each week), a
   control with standard fluorescent lighting on a standard commercial day/night cycle, and
10 Lighting Option 4 using the lighting method of the current disclosure.

                                                  55
    Eggs were produced in compliance with the United Egg Producers Animal Husbandry
    Guidelines using various strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets. Birds were
    housed in cages in blackout grow tents, with one bird per cage, and eight birds per tent. Birds
 5  were fed an all-natural, 100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly of corn, soybean meal,
    limestone, vitamins and minerals, matching the diets, feeding and watering times for the
    commercial comparison birds.
    As shown in Table 15 below (and in FIG. 33), birds in the comparison produced small eggs
10  (1.12 oz) (categorized as "PeeWee" by the USDA sizing, see United States Standards, Grades,
    and Weight Classes for Shell Eggs, AMS 56, Jul. 20, 2000) starting in week 17 with the
    control, however "PeeWee" eggs are not commercially viable. However, birds grown under
    Lighting Option 4 (24 hour (column 4)) quickly reached a commercially viable size of
    "Medium" at 1.82 oz per egg by week 21 and increased in weight to 1.87 oz per egg week 22.
15  Lighting option 4 using standard commercial day/night timing, also reach a "Medium" weight
    of 1.76 oz per egg by week 22. The Control group reach a weight of 1.75 oz per by week 22
    with the commercial average, shown in column 5 showing average commercial egg weights
    reaching a "Medium" by week 21.
20
                                               Table 15
                                       Average Egg Weight (oz)
                              Comparison Study with Commercial Control
                        Lighting Option 4                                           Commercial
                        with    commercial   Conrol
                                 with commrcia
                                             Control       Lighting option 4 on a
                                                           2horcleAverage
                        standard timing
   Week 17                                   1.12
   Week 18                                   1.52          1.51                     1.57
   Week 19                                   1.47          1.65                     1.61
   Week 20              1.47                 1.57          1.69                     1.65
   Week 21              1.63                 1.70          1.82                     1.75
   Week 22              1.76                 1.75          1.87                     1.84

                                                   56
                                    Increased Average Bird Weight
   Six chicken weight gain over time studies were conducted in Greeley, Colo. in the winter and
 5 spring of 2016 using the lighting system and method of the current disclosure and compared
   standard commercial chicken weights for white leghorn varieties over the same period when
   raised under standard commercially available lights (see Hy-Line International, January 2016).
   Birds raised under the lighting of the system and methods of the current disclosure were raised
10 in compliance with the United Egg Producers Animal Husbandry Guidelines using various
   strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets. Birds were housed in cages in blackout
   grow tents, with one bird per cage, and eight birds per tent. Birds were fed an all-natural,
   100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly of corn, soybean meal, limestone, vitamins
   and minerals, matching the diets, feeding and watering times for the commercial comparison
15 birds. Bird weights were captured using a common hanging scale and measured on a weekly
   basis, Tuesday mornings at 9 am.
                                              Example 15
                             Average Bird Weight--Lighting Option One
20 Table 16 shows a comparison of the average bird (chicken) weight from 20 weeks to 31 weeks
   for birds housed and grown under the system and method of the current application using
   lighting Option One (shown in Table 1) when compared with the average bird weight
   (chicken) to the total number of birds in a conventional production facility using conventional
   commercial lighting.
25
   Various strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets were used for the system of the
   current application. Birds were fed all natural, 100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly
   of corn, soybean meal, limestone, vitamins and minerals, matching the diets, feeding and
   watering times with standard commercial practice. No hormones or stimulants were used.
30
   As shown in Table 16 and illustrated in FIG. 34, the comparison began with 20 week old birds
   raised under the lighting of the system of the current application which showed an average
   weight 1440 g beginning in week 20, whereas the breed standard weight at 20 weeks is 1380
   g. At 22 weeks, the average bird weight of the system of the present application was 1505 g,

                                                  57
   where the breed standard weight is 1460 g. At 25 weeks, the average bird weight of a bird
   raised under the system of the present application was 1520 g, compared to 1490 g for the
   breed standard weight. At 31 weeks, the average bird weight of a bird raised under the system
   of the present application was 1537.5 g, compared to 1520 g for the breed standard weight.
 5 Please note that a power failure at the bird housing facility at week 26 prevented a measure of
   birds for the week and caused a loss of weight in week 27 due to stress. As shown in Table 14,
   an, increase in average bird weight of 12 g per week was shown in birds raised under the
   lighting of the current application when compared to birds grown or living under a commercial
   lighting system.
10
                              Table 16 - Average bird weight in grams (g)
                                           Lighting Option 1
                  Bird Avg.     Weight
                  (g) using system of                                   Difference in bird weight
     Age                                 Breed Standard Weight (g)
                  the           present                                between systems
                  application
     20 Weeks     1440                    1380                          60 g
     21 Weeks     1465                    1430                          35 g
     22 Weeks     1505                    1460                          45 g
     23 Weeks     1505                    1470                          35 g
     24 Weeks     1510                    1480                          30 g
     25 Weeks     1520                    1490                          30 g
     26 weeks     No data due to power outage
     27 Weeks     1465                    1510                          -45 g
     28 Weeks     1532.5                  1510                          22.5 g
     29 Weeks     1507.5                  1520                          -13.5 g
     30 Weeks     1527.5                  1520                          7.5 g
     31 Weeks     1537.5                  1520                          17.5 g
     Average weight difference over time                                12 g

                                                   58
                                              Example 16
                             Average Bird Weight-Lighting Option Two
   Table 17 shows a comparison of the average bird (chicken) weight from 20 weeks to 31 weeks
 5 for birds housed and raised under the system and method of the current application using
   lighting option two (shown in Table 1) when compared with the average bird weight (chicken)
   to the total number of birds in a conventional production facility using conventional
   commercial lighting.
10 Various strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets were used for the system of the
   current application. Birds were fed all natural, 100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly
   of corn, soybean meal, limestone, vitamins and minerals, matching the diets, feeding and
   watering times with standard commercial practice. No hormones or stimulants were used.
15 As shown in Table 17 and illustrated in FIG. 35, the comparison began with 20 week old birds
   raised under the lighting of the system of the current application which showed an average
   weight 1407.5 g beginning in week 20, whereas the breed standard weight at 20 weeks is 1380
   g. At 22 weeks, the average bird weight of the system of the present application was 1440 g,
   where the breed standard weight is 1460 g. At 25 weeks, the average bird weight of a bird
20 raised under the system of the present application was 1460 g, compared to 1490 g for the
   breed standard weight. At 31 weeks, the average bird weight of a bird raised under the system
   of the present application was 1515.0 g, compared to 1520 g for the breed standard weight.
   Please note that a power failure at the bird housing facility at week 26 prevented a measure of
   bird week for the week and caused a loss of weight in week 27 due to stress.
25
30

                                                   59
                            Table 17 - Average bird weight in grams (g)
                                          Lighting Option 2
                                  Bird Avg. Weight (g)
             Age                  using    system of the Breed Standard Weight (g)
                                  present application
             20 Weeks              1407.5                     1380
             21 Weeks              1420                       1430
             22 Weeks              1440                       1460
             23 Weeks              1435                       1470
             24 Weeks              1455                       1480
             25 Weeks              1460                       1490
             26 Weeks             No data due to power outage
             27 Weeks              1433.75                    1510
             28 Weeks              1487.5                     1510
             29 Weeks              1452.5                     1520
             30 Weeks              1477.5                     1520
             31 Weeks              1515                       1520
                                             Example 17
                            Average Bird Weight--Lighting Option Three
 5
   Table 18 shows a comparison of the average bird (chicken) weight from 20 weeks to 31 weeks
   for birds housed and raised under the system and method of the current application using
   lighting Option Three (shown in Table 1) when compared with the average bird weight
   (chicken) to the total number of birds in a conventional production facility using conventional
10 commercial lighting.
   Various strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets were used for the system of the
   current application. Birds were fed all natural, 100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly
   of corn, soybean meal, limestone, vitamins and minerals, matching the diets, feeding and
15 watering times with standard commercial practice. No hormones or stimulants were used.

                                                    60
   As shown in Table 18 and illustrated in FIG. 36, the comparison began with 20 week old birds
   raised under the lighting of the system of the current application which showed an average
   weight 1445 g beginning in week 20, whereas the breed standard weight at 20 weeks is 1380
   g. At 22 weeks the average bird weight of the system of the present application was 1470 g,
 5 where the breed stand weight is 1460 g. At 25 weeks the average bird weight of a bird raised
   under the system of the present application was 1470 g, compared to 1490 g for the breed
   standard weight. At 31 weeks the average bird weight of a bird raised under the system of the
   present application was 1520 g, compared to 1520 g for the breed standard weight. Please note
   that a power failure at the bird housing facility at week 26 prevented a measure of birds for the
10 week and caused a loss of weight in week 27 due to stress. As shown in Table 16, an increase
   in average bird weight of 3.2 g per week was shown in birds raised under the lighting of the
   current application when compared to birds grown or living under a commercial lighting
   system.
                             Table 18 - Average bird weight in grams (g)
                                           Lighting Option 3
                        Bird Avg. Weight
                        (g)   using system Breed             Standard Difference in bird weight
                        of     the   present   Weight (g)              between systems
                        application
     20 Weeks            1445                  1380                     65
     21 Weeks            1495                  1430                     65
     22 Weeks            1470                  1460                     10
     23 Weeks            1465                  1470                     -5
     24 Weeks            1460                  1480                     -20
     25 Weeks            1470                  1490                     -20
     26 Weeks           No data due to power outage                    0
     27 Weeks            1462.5                1510                     -47.5
     28 Weeks            1540                  1510                     30
     29 Weeks            1507.5                1520                     -12.5
     30 Weeks            1490                  1520                     -30
     31 Weeks            1520                  1520                    0
     Average weight difference over time                                3.2

                                                    61
                                              Example 18
                              Average Bird Weight-Lighting Option Four
 5 Table 19 shows a comparison of the average bird (chicken) weight from 20 weeks to 31 weeks
   for birds housed and raised under the system and method of the current application using
   lighting Option Four (shown in Table 1) when compared with the average bird weight
   (chicken) to the total number of birds in a conventional production facility using conventional
   commercial lighting.
10
   Various strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets were used for the system of the
   current application. Birds were fed all natural, 100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly
   of corn, soybean meal, limestone, vitamins and minerals, matching the diets, feeding and
   watering times with standard commercial practice. No hormones or stimulants were used.
15
   As shown in Table 19 and illustrated in FIG. 37, the comparison began with 20 week old birds
   raised under the lighting of the system of the current application which showed an average
   weight 1445 g beginning in week 20, whereas the breed standard weight at 20 weeks is 1380
   g. At 22 weeks, the average bird weight of the system of the present application was 1470 g,
20 where the breed standard weight is 1460 g. At 25 weeks, the average bird weight of bird raised
   under the system of the present application was 1470 g, compared to 1490 g for the breed
   standard weight. At 31 weeks, the average bird weight of a bird raised under the system of the
   present application was 1520 g, compared to 1520 g for the breed standard weight. Please note
   that a power failure at the bird housing facility at week 26 prevented a measure of birds for the
25 week and caused a loss of weight in week 27 due to stress. As shown in Table 17, an increase
   in average bird weight of 66.1 g per week was shown in birds raised under the lighting of the
   current application when compared to birds grown or living under a commercial lighting
   system.
30

                                                  62
                              Table 19 - Average bird weight in grams (g)
                                           Lighting Option 4
                    Bird Avg. Weight
                     (g) using system                                 Difference in bird weight
                    of    the    present                              between systems
                     application
     20 Weeks        1390                 1380                        log
     21 Weeks        1460                 1430                        30 g
     22 Weeks        1545                 1460                        85 g
     23 Weeks        1555                 1470                        85 g
     24 Weeks        1565                 1480                        85 g
     25 Weeks        1580                 1490                        90 g
     26 Weeks       No data due to power outage
     27 Weeks        1545                 1510                        35 g
     28 Weeks        1602.5               1510                        92.5 g
     29 Weeks        1570                 1520                        50 g
     30 Weeks        1585                 1520                        65 g
     31 Weeks        1620                 1520                        100 g
     Average weight difference over time                              66.1 g
                                              Example 19
                              Average Bird Weight--Lighting Option Five
 5
   Table 20 shows a comparison of the average bird (chicken) weight from 20 weeks to 31 weeks
   for birds housed and raised under the system and method of the current application using
   lighting Option Five (shown in Table 1) when compared with the average bird weight
   (chicken) to the total number of birds in a conventional production facility using conventional
10 commercial lighting. Various strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets were used
   for the system of the current application. Birds were fed all natural, 100% vegetarian diet
   comprised predominantly of corn, soybean meal, limestone, vitamins and minerals, matching
   the diets, feeding and watering times with standard commercial practice. No hormones or
   stimulants were used.

                                                   63
   As shown in Table 20 and illustrated in FIG. 38, the comparison began with 20 week old birds
   raised under the lighting of the system of the current application showed an average weight
   1475 g beginning in week 20, whereas the breed standard weight at 20 weeks is 1380 g. At 22
 5 weeks, the average bird weight of the system of the present application was 1485 g, where the
   breed standard weight is 1460 g. At 25 weeks, the average bird weight of a bird raised under
   the system of the present application was 1505 g, compared to 1490 g for the breed standard
   weight. At 31 weeks, the average bird weight of bird raised under the system of the present
   application was 1547.5 g, compared to 1520 g for the breed standard weight. Please note that a
10 power failure at the bird housing facility at week 26 prevented a measure of birds for the week
   and caused a loss of weight in week 27 due to stress. As shown in Table 18, an increase in
   average bird weight 21.5 g per week was shown in birds raised under the lighting of the
   current application when compared to birds grown or living under a commercial lighting
   system.
15
                             Table 20 - Average bird weight in grams (g)
                                           Lighting Option 5
                      Bird Avg. Weight (g)     Breed         Standard Difference in bird weight
   Age                using system of the
                                               Weight (g)              between systems
                      present application
    20 Weeks          1475                     1380                    95 g
    21 Weeks          1495                     1430                    65 g
    22 Weeks          1485                     1460                    25 g
    23 Weeks          1495                     1470                    25 g
    24 Weeks          1495                     1480                    15 g
    25 Weeks          1505                     1490                    15 g
    26 Weeks          No data due to power outage
    27 Weeks          1481.25                  1510                    -28.75 g
    28 Weeks          1522.5                   1510                    12.5 g
    29 Weeks          1510                     1520                    -10 g
    30 Weeks          1515                     1520                    -5 g
    31 Weeks          1547.5                   1520                    27.5 g
   Average weight difference over time                                 21.5 g

                                                   64
                                             Example 20
                              Average Bird Weight--Lighting Option Six
 5 Table 21 shows a comparison of the average bird (chicken) weight from 20 weeks to 31 weeks
   for birds housed and raised under the system and method of the current application using
   lighting Option Six (shown in Table 1) when compared with the average bird weight (chicken)
   to the total number of birds in a conventional production facility using conventional
   commercial lighting.
10
   Various strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets were used for the system of the
   current application. Birds were fed all natural, 100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly
   of corn, soybean meal, limestone, vitamins and minerals, matching the diets, feeding and
   watering times with standard commercial practice. No hormones or stimulants were used.
15
   As shown in Table 21 and illustrated in FIG. 39, the comparison began with 20 week old birds
   raised under the lighting of the system of the current application which showed an average
   weight 1435 g beginning in week 20, whereas the breed standard weight at 20 weeks is 1380
   g. At 22 weeks, the average bird weight of the system of the present application was 1460 g,
20 where the breed stand weight is 1460 g. At 25 weeks, the average bird weight of bird raised
   under the system of the present application was 1475 g, compared to 1490 g for the breed
   standard weight. At 31 weeks, the average bird weight of bird raised under the system of the
   present application was 1587.5 g, compared to 1520 g for the breed standard weight. Please
   note that a power failure at the bird housing facility at week 26 prevented a measure of bird
25 week for the week and caused a loss of weight in week 27 due to stress. As shown in Table 19,
   an average increase average bird weight 13.16 g per week was shown in birds grown under the
   lighting of the current application when compared to birds grown or living under a commercial
   lighting system.
30

                                                 65
                            Table 21 - Average bird weight in grams (g)
                                         Lighting Option 6
                          Bird Avg. Weight
                          (g) using system Breed        Standard Difference in bird weight
                          of the present Weight (g)                between systems
                          application
      20 Weeks      1435                       1380                55 g
      21 Weeks      1455                       1430                25 g
      22 Weeks      1460                       1460                0
      23 Weeks      1490                       1470                20 g
      24 Weeks      1470                       1480                -10 g
      25 Weeks      1475                       1490                -15 g
      26 Weeks      No data due to power outage
      27 Weeks      1482.5                     1510                -27.75 g
      28 Weeks      1527.5                     1510                 17.5 g
      29 Weeks      1522.5                     1520                2.5 g
      30 Weeks      1530                       1520                 log
      31 Weeks      1587.5                     1520                67.5 g
      Average weight difference over time                           13.16 g
                                            Example 21
               Average Bird Weight--Comparison with Standard Lighting and Time
 5
   Example 21 provides a comparison study of average bird weight in grams. The study was
   conducted in Greeley, Colo. in the summer of 2016 using three lighting systems: Lighting
   Option 4 (shown in Table 1) of the lighting method of the current disclosure but on a standard
   commercial day/night cycle (15 hours ON at week 17 with a 15 minute increase each week), a
10 control with standard fluorescent lighting on a standard commercial day/night cycle, and
   Lighting Option 4 and Option 5 using the lighting method of the current disclosure.
   Birds produced under the system of the present application described herein were produced in
   compliance with the United Egg Producers Animal Husbandry Guidelines using various

                                                  66
   strains of white leghorn varieties raised from pullets. Birds were housed in cages in blackout
   grow tents, with one bird per cage, and eight birds per tent. Birds were fed an all-natural,
   100% vegetarian diet comprised predominantly of corn, soybean meal, limestone, vitamins
   and minerals, matching the diets, feeding and watering times for the commercial comparison
 5 birds.
   Birds raised under Lighting Option 4 on a 24 hour cycle were raised under Lighting Option 4
   from weeks 13 to 16 and then switched to Lighting Option 5.
10 Birds raised under Lighting Option 4 on a standard commercial day/night cycle our cycle were
   raised under Lighting Option 5 from weeks 13 to 16 and then switched to Lighting Option 6.
   As shown in Table 23 below (and in FIG. 40) birds in the comparison grown under Lighting
   Option 4 on a 24 hour cycle consistently weighed more than birds raised under the control
15 lighting once the lighting was changed to Option 5 at week 16. This was also true for birds
   raised under Lighting Option 4 on a standard day/night cycle once their lighting was changed
   to Option 6 at week 16.
                                                Table 22
                                       Average Bird Weight (g)
                            Comparison Study with Commercial Control
                                           Option 4
                               Lighting Lighing
                                           Opti  n 4Lighting                 option 4 on a
                               with     commercial     Control
                               standard timing                      24 hour cycle
           Week 17             922.5                   945          987.5
           Week 18             950                     1012.5       1017.5
           Week 19              1020                   1057.5       1037.5
           Week 20              1045                   1047.5       1060
           Week 21              1082.5                 1080         1122.5
           Week 22              1132.5                 1107.5       1165
20

                                                  67
                                             Example 22
                                Early Sexual Maturity in Female Birds
 5 Visual studies of birds grown under the system of the present disclosure (such as lighting
   option 4) has shown earlier sexual maturity in birds when compared to the time of sexual
   maturity for birds grown under standard commercial lighting. Visual observations have shown
   that the combs, located on the top of the female birds, reach a larger size and with more
   symmetry, on birds that are grown under lights of the present disclosure.
10
   The foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and
   description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form
   disclosed, and other modifications and variations may be possible in light of the above
   teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of
15 the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best
   utilize the invention in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the
   particular use contemplated. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include
   other alternative embodiments of the invention except insofar as limited by the prior art.

                                                  68
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1. A method for inducing a desired response in a bird, wherein said method comprises:
   providing at least one photon emitter; providing at least one photon emission modulation
 5 controller in communication with said at least one photon emitter; communicating a command
   from said at least one photon emission modulation controller to said at least one photon
   emitter; providing a photon signal to said bird, wherein said photon signal comprises two or
   more independent components, wherein said two or more independent components comprise:
   a first independent component comprising a repetitive first modulated photon pulse group,
10 wherein said first modulated photon pulse group has one or more photon pulse ON durations
   between 0.01 microseconds and 5000 milliseconds with one or more intensities, has one or
   more photon pulse OFF durations between 0.1 microseconds and 24 hours, and a wavelength
   color; and a second independent component comprising a repetitive second modulated photon
   pulse group, wherein said second modulated photon pulse group has one or more photon pulse
15 ON durations between 0.01 microseconds and 5000 milliseconds with one or more intensities,
   has one or more second photon pulse OFF durations between is between 0.1 microseconds and
   24 hours, and a wavelength color; wherein the first independent component and the second
   independent component are produced within said signal simultaneously; wherein the second
   modulated photon pulse group is different from the first modulated photon pulse group; and
20 emitting said signal toward said bird from said at least one photon emitter, wherein the
   combined effect of first modulated photon pulse group and the second modulated photon pulse
   group of the signal produces a desired response from said bird; and wherein said desired
   response from said bird is chosen from ovulation, fertility, egg production or laying, hunger,
   growth, reduction of stress or calming, improving egg quality, socialization, bird growth, bird
25 development, sexual maturity, improving reproductive quality, facilitation of nutrient uptake,
   photochemical responses, and regulation of circadian rhythm.
   2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: a third or more independent component
   comprising a repetitive third or more modulated photon pulse group, wherein said third or
30 more modulated photon pulse group has one or more photon pulse ON durations between 0.01
   microseconds and 5000 milliseconds with one or more intensities, has one or more photon
   pulse OFF durations between 0.1 microseconds and 24 hours, and a wavelength color; wherein
   the third or more independent component, the first independent component and the second
   independent component are produced within said signal simultaneously; wherein the repetitive

                                                   69
   third or more modulated photon pulse group is different from the second modulated photon
   pulse group and the first modulated photon pulse group; and emitting said signal toward said
   bird from said at least one photon emitter, wherein the combined effect of the repetitive third
   or more modulated photon pulse group, the first modulated photon pulse group and the second
 5 modulated photon pulse group of the signal produces a desired response from said bird.
   3. The method of claim 2, wherein each of the one or more photon pulse OFF durations of the
   third or more modulated photon pulse group is different.
10 4. The method of claim 2, wherein each of the one or more photon pulse ON durations of the
   third or more modulated photon pulse group is different.
   5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: providing a master logic controller in
   communication with said at least one photon emission modulation controller, wherein said
15 master logic controller sends commands to said at least one photon emission modulation
   controller controlling the modulated pulse groups of said third or more independent
   component.
   6. The method of claim 2, wherein said components of said third or more modulated photon
20 pulse group are specifically tuned to a desired response from said bird.
   7. The method of claim 2, wherein said wavelength color of said third or more modulated
   photon pulse group is chosen from the group consisting of near red, far-red, blue, infra-red,
   yellow, orange, green and ultra-violet.
25
   8. The method of claim 2, wherein said wavelength color of said third or more modulated
   photon pulse group has a wavelength between 0.1 nm and 1 cm.
   9. The method of claim 2, wherein said third or more modulated photon pulse group further
30 comprises one or more additional intensities.
   10. The method of claim 2, wherein the durations of the third or more pulse ON are different
   from the durations of the third or more photon pulse OFF.

                                                    70
   11. The method of claim 2, wherein said third modulated photon pulse group has a change in
   light quantum of at least 5%.
   12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a master logic controller in
 5 communication with said at least one photon emission modulation controller, wherein said
   master logic controller sends commands to said at least one photon emission modulation
   controller controlling the modulated pulse groups of said first independent component and said
   second independent component from said at least one photon emitters.
10 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one photon emitter is selected from the group
   consisting of incandescent (Tungsten-halogen and Xenon), Fluorescent (CFL's), high intensity
   discharge (Metal Halide, High-Pressure Sodium, Low-Pressure Sodium, Mercury Vapor), and
   light emitting diode.
15 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one photon emission modulation controller is
   selected from the group consisting of a solid-state relay, a metal-oxide-semiconductor field
   effect transistor, a field-effect transistor, a zener diode, optical chopper and a device that
   induces modulation of said first modulated photon pulse group and said second modulated
   photon pulse group.
20
   15. The method of claim 1, wherein said wavelength color of said first modulated photon pulse
   group and said wavelength color of said second modulated photon pulse group are chosen
   from the group consisting of near red, far-red, blue, infra-red, yellow, orange, green and ultra
   violet.
25
   16. The method of claim 1, wherein said wavelength color of said first modulated photon pulse
   group and said wavelength color of said second modulated photon pulse group photon pulse
   each have a wavelength between 0.1 nm and 1 cm.
30 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said bird is selected from the group comprising: chickens,
   quail, turkeys, waterfowl, ostriches, emu, pheasant, game birds, doves, pigeons and grouse,
   and tissue thereof.

                                                  71
   18. The method of claim 1, wherein said desired response in said bird is a response mediated
   by opsins in the hypothalamus of said bird.
   19. The method of claim 1, wherein said desired response from said bird is chosen from
 5 ovulation, egg laying, hunger, growth and mood.
   20. The method of claim 1, wherein said first modulated photon pulse group and said second
   modulated photon pulse group each has a change in light quantum of at least 5%.
10 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the duty cycle of said first modulated photon pulse group
   and said second modulated photon pulse group ranges between 0.1% to 93%.
   22. The method of claim 1, wherein said first modulated photon pulse group and said second
   modulated photon pulse group are each specifically tuned to a desired response from said bird.
15
   23. The method of claim 1, wherein said method reduces the power used to induce a desired
   response in a bird by at least 50% when compared to conventional growing systems.
   24. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more photon pulse OFF durations of
20 the first modulated photon pulse group is a different duration.
   25. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more photon pulse OFF durations of
   the second modulated photon pulse group is a different duration.
25 26. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more photon pulse ON durations of the
   first modulated photon pulse group is a different duration.
   27. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more photon pulse ON durations of the
   second modulated photon pulse group is a different duration.
30
   28. The method of claim 1, wherein the durations of the first pulse ON are different from the
   durations of the first photon pulse OFF.

                                                 72
   29. The method of claim 1, wherein the durations of the second pulse ON are different from
   durations of the second photon pulse OFF.
   30. A method for inducing a desired response in a bird, wherein said method comprises:
 5 providing at least one photon emitter; providing at least one photon emission modulation
   controller in communication with said at least one photon emitter; communicating a command
   from said at least one photon emission modulation controller to said at least one photon
   emitter; providing a photon signal to said bird, wherein said photon signal comprises two or
   more independent components, wherein said two or more independent components comprise:
10 a first independent component comprising a repetitive first modulated photon pulse group,
   wherein said first modulated photon pulse group has one or more photon pulse ON durations
   between 0.01 microseconds and 5000 milliseconds with one or more intensities, has one or
   more photon pulse OFF durations between 0.1 microseconds and 24 hours, and a wavelength
   color; and a second independent component comprising a repetitive second modulated photon
15 pulse group, wherein said second modulated photon pulse group has one or more photon pulse
   ON durations between 0.01 microseconds and 5000 milliseconds with one or more intensities,
   has one or more second photon pulse OFF durations between is between 0.1 microseconds and
   24 hours, and a wavelength color; wherein the first independent component and the second
   independent component are produced within said signal simultaneously; wherein the second
20 modulated photon pulse group is the same as the first modulated photon pulse group; and
   emitting said signal toward said bird from said at least one photon emitter, wherein the
   combined effect of first modulated photon pulse group and the second modulated photon pulse
   group of the signal produces a desired response from said bird; and wherein said desired
   response from said bird is chosen from ovulation, fertility, egg production or laying, hunger,
25 growth, reduction of stress or calming, improving egg quality, socialization, bird growth, bird
   development, sexual maturity, improving reproductive quality, facilitation of nutrient uptake,
   photochemical responses, and regulation of circadian rhythm.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
