  Document31 -28/ 11/2012
                                            ABSTRACT
               A key measurement tool including a body having an aperture, wherein the aperture
   has a shape conforming to the cross-sectional shape of a blade of a specific type of key to
5  allow passage of said blade of said specific type of key, and to prevent passage of blades
   of other types of keys.

         1/7
               10
30 12
                  24
      FIGURE 1

   H:\txb\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TXB\16799331 _.DOC-12/04/2018
                                                   KEY MEASUREMENT TOOL
                  This application is a divisional application derived from Australian Patent
   Application No. 2013257541,                              the entire contents of which, as originally filed, are
   incorporated herein by reference.
 5 Field of the Invention
                  The invention relates to a key measurement tool and, more particularly, but not
   exclusively, to a key measurement tool designed to assist retail store staff in their servicing
   of shoppers.
   Background of the Invention
10                It is known to provide door locks of different types, including different numbers of
   pins within the locks and different cross-sectional profiles of key blades. It is common for
   shoppers in retail stores to query whether it is possible to have a lock keyed alike to an
   existing lock in their house, and will present an existing key to store staff. Presently, retail
   staff have no way of properly assessing the type of a key presented to them by a customer,
15 other than removing a lock from its packaging to test whether the key can be inserted into
   the lock.            The applicant has identified that this existing procedure is problematic as it
   effects resale value of the lock which has been removed from its packaging, and because
   the customer may be referred away from the retail store to a locksmith if a satisfactory
   assessment cannot be provided.
20                Examples of the invention seek to provide a key measurement tool which
   overcomes or at least alleviates disadvantages associated with existing procedures for
   assessing key types.
   Summary of the Invention
                  In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a key measurement tool
25    including a body having an aperture, wherein the aperture has a shape conforming to the
      cross-sectional shape of a blade of a specific type of key to allow passage of said blade of
      said specific type of key, and to prevent passage of blades of other types of keys.

   Document29-2 8/1/2012
                                                       -2
                Preferably, the key measurement tool is for determining whether a test key is of
    said specific type of key, wherein the aperture allows passage of a blade of the test key if
    the test key is of said specific type of key, and prevents passage of the test key if the test
 5  key is not of said specific type of key.
                Preferably, the specific type of key is a C4 key.
                In a preferred form, the aperture allows passage of said blade up to a shoulder of
10  said specific type of key, and prevents passage of a bow of said specific type of key.
                Preferably, the key measurement tool includes a diagram for determining of a test
    key a number of lock pins for which the test key is formed to operate. More preferably,
    the diagram has a mark for locating a shoulder of the test key, and an image to show
15  whether the test key is formed to operate a 5 pin lock or a 6 pin lock.
                Preferably, the tool is sized to be placed in a pocket of a user. More preferably, the
    tool is in the form of a plate with 100mm width, 100mm height, and 0.8mm thickness.
20              Preferably, the tool is formed of aluminium.
                Preferably, the tool includes a hole for attachment to a lanyard or keychain.
                Preferably, the key measurement tool is a complimentary gift for sales staff
25  responsible for selling locks. More preferably, the tool is provided as a complimentary
    gift at a training event of said sales staff.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
30              The invention is described, by way of non-limiting example only, with reference to
   the accompanying drawings, in which:

   Document29-2 8/1/2012
                                                      -3
                Figure 1 is a front view of a key measurement tool in accordance with an example
   of the present invention;
 5              Figure 2 is a rear view of the key measurement tool of Figure 1;
                Figure 3 is a detailed view of an aperture of the key measurement tool;
                Figure 4 is a detailed view showing a blade of a key being inserted into the
10 aperture;
                Figure 5 shows a blade of the key fully inserted into the aperture;
                Figure 6 is a detailed view of a diagram printed on the key measurement tool; and
15
                Figure 7 shows a key placed against the diagram for determining a number of lock
   pins for which the key is made to operate.
   Detailed Description
20
                With reference to Figures 1 to 11, there is shown a key measurement tool 10 which
   is designed to assist retail store staff in servicing customers. Advantageously, the key
   measurement tool 10 enables a user (for example, a staff member of a retail store) to
   determine the type of a key presented to the user.              In particular, the user is able to
25 determine the type of the key based on the cross-sectional profile of a blade of the key, as
   well as the number of lock pins for which the key has been made to operate.
                More specifically, with reference to Figure 1, there is shown a key measurement
   tool 10 including a body 12 having an aperture 14, wherein the aperture 14 has a shape
30 conforming to the cross-sectional shape of a blade of a specific type of key to allow
   passage of said blade of said specific type of key, and to prevent passage of blades of other

   Document29-28/ l /2012
                                                   -4
   types of keys. The key measurement tool 10 is for determining whether a test key 16 (see
   Figures 4, 5 and 7) is of said specific type of key. The aperture 14 allows passage of a
   blade 18 of the test key 16 if the test key 16 is of said specific type of key, and prevents
   passage of the test key 16 if the test key 16 is not of said specific type of key. With
 5 reference to Figures 4 and 5 of the drawings, it can be seen that, as the blade 18 of the test
   key 16 is able to pass into and through the aperture 14, the test key 16 is of said specific
   type of key.
               In the particular example shown in the drawings, the aperture 14 is formed to test
10 whether the test key 16 is a C4 key, and the aperture as shown in Figures 1, 2 and 3 is
   shaped to conform with and complement the cross-sectional profile of the blade of a C4
   type key. As depicted in Figures 1 and 3, the aperture 14 may be labelled to indicate the
   specific type of key being tested by the aperture 14, in this case "C4 Key Tester".
15             With reference to Figures 4 and 5, the aperture 14 allows passage of the blade 18
   up to a shoulder 20 of said specific type of key, and prevents passage of a bow 22 of said
   specific type of key.
               Turning to Figures 6 and 7, the key measurement tool 10 includes a diagram 24 for
20 determining of the test key 16 a number of lock pins for which the test key 16 is formed to
   operate. The diagram 24 has a mark 26 in the form of a broken line for locating the
   shoulder 20 of the test key 16, and an image 28 to show whether the test key 16 is formed
   to operate a five pin lock or a six pin lock. In the particular example shown in Figures 6
   and 7, the image 28 includes a side profile of a five pin key, a side profile of a six pin key,
25 and a depiction of six pins located relative to the parts of the keys shown in the image with
   which the pins would cooperate inside a lock.
               The key measurement tool 10 is sized to be placed in a pocket of a user and
   preferably is in the form of a plate having 100mm width, 100mm height, and 0.8mm
30 thickness. The key measurement tool 10 may be formed of aluminium, and may have a
   hole 30 for attachment to a lanyard or key chain.

   Document29-2 8/1/2012
                                                     -5
                The key measurement tool 10 may be provided as a complimentary gift for sales
   staff responsible for selling locks, and more particularly as a complimentary gift at a
   training event of said sales staff. The key measurement tool 10 may be provided with
 5 branding so as to advertise a brand to both the sales staff and to customers being assisted
   by the sales staff.
                While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it
   should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not by
10 way of limitation. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that various
   changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope
   of the invention. Thus, the present invention should not be limited by any of the above
   described exemplary embodiments.
15              The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
   from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
   acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
   information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
   knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
20
                Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
   of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
25 steps.

   Document30 -28/1/2012
                                                       -6
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
     1.           A key measurement tool including a body having an aperture, wherein the
                  aperture has a shape conforming to the cross-sectional shape of a blade of a
 5                specific type of key to allow passage of said blade of said specific type of key, and
                  to prevent passage of blades of other types of keys.
    2.            A key measurement tool as claimed in claim 1, wherein the key measurement tool
                  is for determining whether a test key is of said specific type of key, wherein the
10                aperture allows passage of a blade of the test key if the test key is of said specific
                  type of key, and prevents passage of the test key if the test key is not of said
                  specific type of key.
    3.            A key measurement tool as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the specific
15                type of key is a C4 key.
    4.            A key measurement tool as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
                  aperture allows passage of said blade up to a shoulder of said specific type of key,
                  and prevents passage of a bow of said specific type of key.
20
    5.            A key measurement tool as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, including a
                  diagram for determining of a test key a number of lock pins for which the test key
                  is formed to operate.
25  6.            A key measurement tool as claimed in claim 5, wherein the diagram has a mark
                  for locating a shoulder of the test key, and an image to show whether the test key
                  is formed to operate a 5 pin lock or a 6 pin lock.
    7.            A key measurement tool as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the tool
30                is sized to be placed in a pocket of a user.

   Document3O-2 8/1/2012
                                                      -7
     8.           A key measurement tool as claimed in claim 7, wherein the tool is in the form of a
                  plate with 100mm width, 100mm height, and 0.8mm thickness.
    9.            A key measurement tool as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the tool
 5                is formed of aluminium.
     10.          A key measurement tool as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the tool
                  includes a hole for attachment to a lanyard or keychain.
10   11.          A key measurement tool as claimed in any one of claims I to 10, wherein the key
                  measurement tool is a complimentary gift for sales staff responsible for selling
                  locks.
     12.          A key measurement tool as claimed in claim 11, wherein the tool is provided as a
15                complimentary gift at a training event of said sales staff.
     13.          A key measurement tool substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to
                  the accompanying drawings.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
