                                    ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a system and a method for communication between
at least one user in a high-frequency HF communication system comprising
at least one transmission site (1) and at least one reception site (2), the two
sites being remote from one another by a distance D, characterized in that it
comprises at least the following steps:
    e  scanning the signals or frequencies by using a wide band receiver
       (23),
    e  detecting whether there is a request to establish a communication link
       contained in the signals received on the receiver,
        *  if yes, then transmitting this link establishment request to the
           transmitting equipment item which will check whether it is possible
           to establish a link and, if it is, which will determine a possible
           configuration and establish a communication mode for the mobile
           user,
        e  if not, then returning to the step in which the signals received on
           the reception site of the system are scanned.
Figure 2 to be published

              2/4
[ |
           ]-N
                        TI
              U4
                                   Id
                              CC%)
                              .50       LL
                  oz
                      )             (\6
                  0
                           II
       I--        -----
           2)   E
    w1         n              .l_ _
                   cuLLI

                                             1
                    COMMUNICATION METHOD AND SYSTEM
               The invention relates to a high-frequency HF band communication
   method and system, applicable to the infrastructure stations and to the
 s mobile stations (naval, terrestrial, aeronautical) that are connected thereto. It
   relates to the establishment of links and the overall optimization of the
   communication resources on the HF media, media which prove to be
   particularly variable, because the conditions in ionospheric mode vary in
   particular depending on the solar cycle, the season, the time of the day. It
10 also allows for the implementation of high speed wide band solutions which
   require a better link budget.
               It applies to the field of high-frequency HF communications and
   can be used for narrow band and wide band uses.
               The HF links in particular offer a beyond line of sight (BLOS)
is capacity which allows for communications to be carried out at long, even very
   long, range, without requiring recourse to a satellite or to the use of relay
   stations.
               The HF transmissions, notably when seeking to handle medium to
   long distances (1000-10 000 km class) generally rely on infrastructure
20 stations or dedicated sites in which are deployed antennas of large size and
   of high gain and, specifically for the "transmission" part, high-power amplifiers
   (typically greater than 1 kW). The infrastructures links these days allow
   almost all of the globe to be reached with very low bit rates, for example
   75 bits/s with an availability greater than 90%, and do so by using high-power
25 amplifiers between 5 and 10 kW and high-gain antennas. An infrastructure
   station comprises two parts or geographic sites which are generally
   separated by at least several tens of kilometres to avoid the radio frequency
   pollution of the receivers by the high-power transmitters. A communication
   link, generally perfect and with low latency, links the two sites and allows a
30 dual-site mode transceiver-type operation. The communication link used is,
   for example, a microwave beam, a dedicated link, etc. The links between the

                                           2
   infrastructure station and a mobile (or another infrastructure station) are then
   established:
       e   either in fixed frequency FF mode, the case in which the transmitter
           and the receiver have previously decided on the frequency that they
 s         would use, therefore in which the receiver listens to the frequency
           (monitors the frequency) to react when it detects a call,
       e   or by automatic link establishment or ALE, a case for which several
           procedures exist, standardized or not. These procedures are based on
           hopping synchronously or asynchronously between the different
10         frequencies of a pre-established plan. The receiver, which is
           monitoring this pre-established frequency plan, therefore hops in
           frequency by listening to the instantaneous frequency to react when it
           detects a call.
               These infrastructure stations establish links either with other
1s infrastructure sites, or with mobile users, for example a boat, a vehicle, an
   aircraft, etc., or semi-mobile users, for example a command station. The
   mobile or semi-mobile user is generally equipped with low- or medium-power
   transmitters, typically of the order of 20 to 500 W, and antennas whose
   dimensions depend on the size and the bulk of the platform or even the
20 available space. This leads naturally to a link imbalance between an
   infrastructure site and a mobile user. Once the link is established, the
   associated equipment items (antenna, amplifier, radio, modem, etc.) are
   dedicated to the communication. An operator or a management system
   allows them to be configured in a mode of interest, for the waveform or forms
25 of interest, and for the frequencies of interest, as a function of the scheduling
   provided for the operation of the system. This approach leads to a
   dimensioning of the equipment items as a function of the number of links to
   be monitored, and also of the antenna types, the directional antennas making
   it possible to have a high gain.
30             There is currently a need to offer optimized solutions in terms of
   cost/surface used/ease of deploying the system to address in particular the

                                             3
   recurrent need for competitiveness. Also, there are efforts to improve the
   performance levels of the current systems to enhance the resilience of the
   HF links, often considered to be insufficiently reliable and not long enough to
   establish, but also to allow the implementation of high speed wide band
 s solutions which require a better link budget.
               The prior art describes two types of solutions. A first approach
   relies on the use of more powerful and more numerous resources and the
   second relies on the implementation of antenna processing in transmission
   and reception.
10             The first approach consists in increasing the power of the
   amplifiers in the existing installations. The latter are generally already very
   powerful with respect to what can currently be achieved. The maximum
   available power is of the order of 10 kW, the antennas are of the log-periodic
   type of a height greater than 10 m. The antenna arrays can be used in
is reception, which allows for an antenna gain in reception by beam forming.
   Increasing these power and dimension values presupposes significant
   investments, for gains which ultimately prove to be proportionately very low.
   For example, changing to 20 Kw only provides a gain of 3 dB.
               In the second approach, the antenna gain is increased by using,
20 for example, directional antennas. The increase in the directionality of the
   antennas leads to an increase in the number of processing chains to monitor
   all the directions of interest. This increase has a significant impact in terms of
   installation and maintenance cost. The use of directional antennas, such as
   rhombic, log-periodic antennas, naturally generates a dimensioning of the
25 equipment as a function of the number of directions to be monitored
   (typically, a theoretical isotropic omnidirectional antenna allows all the
   directions to be monitored, whereas an antenna exhibiting a high gain is
   sectorially oriented and must therefore be oriented in the right direction, after
   this direction has been determined, or by default if the antenna monitors a
30 sector, whether it is a transmission-mode or reception-mode antenna. In
   reception mode, it is also possible to consider the use of antenna arrays, in

                                            4
   which each elementary antenna is typically omnidirectional and with low gain,
   but in which beam forming by computation can be applied to create a virtual
   directional antenna. Such a solution is typically employed in goniometry
   equipment.
 s              Another way of approaching the problem is to define a greater
   meshing of the globe to reduce the distance to be covered. This involves
   establishing several stations (and therefore associated sites). Increasing the
   number of infrastructure stations allows the overall return from the network of
   stations to be improved, but poses the problem of the cost of these additional
10 stations and of the feasibility of the installation thereof. In effect, it is
   necessary to have dedicated spaces, which can prove difficult in the open
   sea, for example, or far from the territory thereof.
                Another solution consists in using a wide band reception antenna
   adapted to perform HF traffic listening and goniometry functions allowing for
1s the detection of transmissions, with an improved antenna gain via beam
   forming. These solutions are not constrained in real time, in the same way as
   the communication process, in particular in ALE phase, can be. Because of
   this, the sequencings and the operations applied will generally differ: if the
   network is not formed in real time, the delayed processing time with beam
20 forming on direction of arrival is not impacted, although the ALE processing
   has a maximum latency allowed for the response.
                Despite the results obtained by the systems known from the prior
   art, the latter do not make it possible to obtain the desired performance levels
   for HF communications, while reducing the costs of deployment of the
25 solution.
                The object of the present invention is to propose a method and a
   system which are based on a wide band processing in reception relying on
   an array of antennas and the application of beam forming, and on the
   management of the resources on the transmission site to optimize the use
30 thereof and the quality of the links established, while observing the respective
   priorities of communication flows or establishment requests.

                                            5
               In the present invention, the concept of broadband is defined as
   being a listening band strictly greater than the instantaneous band of
   maximum possible modulated signals.
               The    invention   relates   to  a    method    for  establishing a
 s communication link for a mobile user in a high-frequency HF communication
   system comprising at least one transmission site and at least one reception
   site, the two sites being remote from one another by a distance D,
   characterized in that it comprises at least the following steps:
          at the reception site, by using a wide band receiver, i.e. a listening
10        band strictly greater than the instantaneous band of maximum
          possible modulated signals, scanning the signals or the frequencies,
          detecting wether there is a request to establish a communication link
          contained in the signals received on the receiver,
           e   if a request exists, then transmit this request to establish a
1s             communication link to transmitters and to a controle module HUB
               which checks if it possible to establish a communication link and if
               so who determines a possible configuration and establishes a
               communication mode for the mobile user based on configuration
               information calculated by the transmission site,
20         e   If there is no request, then return to the scanning step of the
               received signals.
   The method comprises the following steps,
       " Scanning the frequencies of interest fim for a given communication,
          and estimating the energy level received on the frequencies monitored
25        by the wide band receiver,
       e  if the energy value received on the wide band receiver corresponds to
          a fixed frequency FF or ALE request, then forming a beam for the
          communication, in the case where a link establishment request has
          been received before the expiry of a timer, checking whether the
30        transmission site has resources for establishing the requested
          communication link and starting a communication mode, otherwise

                                            6
           returning to the step of monitoring or scanning on the reception
           frequencies.
               For a fixed frequency FF request, the call is carried out on one and
   the same frequency and for an ALE request, the call is carried out
 s successively or in parallel on several frequencies of different values.
               According to one embodiment, the method computes the direction
   of arrival of the signal and transmits this information to the transmission site
   to   determine     the transmission     configuration   available for    a given
   configuration.
10             The method can comprise a step in which the computed
   configuration is compared with a set of existing configurations and, if a better
   configuration exists, then the HUB module transmits the new configuration
   parameters for the communication process or processes to the driven
   equipment items (amplifier, matrix, etc.).
1s             The     method    analyses,   for   example,   the   content of   the
   communication request and, based on the priority of the communication, it
   frees up resources used by a current communication to reassign them to this
   new communication.
               On reception of a communication request, the method suspends a
20 current    communication      to  transmit    a  wait  indication   to  the  new
   communication.
               The invention relates also to an HF communication system
   comprising at least one transmission site and one reception site, the two sites
   being separated by a distance D chosen to avoid the disturbances from the
25 transmission site on the reception site, characterized in that:
       e   the transmission site comprises at least several transmitters linked to
           a set of transmitting antennas and an HF control module,
       e   the reception site comprises a wide band receiver and an HF control
           module,

                                            7
       e  said HF control modules at the transmission site and at the reception
          site being adapted to execute the steps of the method according to the
          invention.
               Other features and advantages of the invention will become more
 s apparent on reading the following detailed description given in an illustrative
   and nonlimiting manner, and which is given with reference to the attached
   drawings in which:
       *  Figure 1 schematically represents a global system example in which
          the invention can be used,
10     e  Figure 2 is an example of architecture according to the invention,
       e  Figure 3 illustrates the steps of initialization of the different elements
          participating in the invention, and
       *  Figure 4 illustrates the steps implemented by the method according to
          the invention.
1s             Figure 1 is a global diagram          illustrating the positon of a
   transmission site 1 remote from a reception site 2 and a mobile user or ship 3
   wanting to establish a communication. The transmission site and the
   reception site are positioned at a distance D chosen so as to avoid any radio
   frequency disturbance from one site on the other and the two sites
20 communicate via a network of leased lines or LS, wide area network WAN, or
   microwave beam FH type.
               Figure 2 illustrates an example of system architecture according to
   the invention comprising the transmission site 1 and the reception site 2.
               The method allows all the frequencies of interest to be monitored
25 by means of arrayed antennas and a wide band receiver, capable of forming
   beams for the parallel computation and processing of a number of links
   greater than the maximum number of links provided for the station.
               The transmission site 1 comprises, for example, an operator
   station 10, linked with a module 11 adapted to manage the reliabilization of
30 the links, a cryptography module 12 for the data to be transmitted. The
   encrypted data are transmitted to a modulator/demodulator or modem 13

                                           8
   having an output linked to several transmitters 14i linked to a switching matrix
   15 of a set of n transmitting antennas 16j. The modem 13 performs the
   modulation functions for the traffic and the management of the ALE link. The
   transmission site also comprises an HF HUB control module 17. The control
 s module is linked to the modem 13, to the transmitter, to the switching matrix
   15 and optionally to the reliabilization module 11 to drive them according to
   its communication strategies, in particular according to communication
   establishment requests that it receives.
              On the transmission side, a multicriterion process for optimizing
1o the use of the resources, taking account of the capacities of the equipment
   items, of the quality of the links and of the priorities of the different flows,
   optimizes the choices of the resources for each link. The system manages,
   via the HUB control module, the resources in a way optimized as a function:
       e  on the one hand of the capacity of the resources (for example a TX
15        antenna operating only above 6 MHz will not be eligible for a
          transmission    at fi = 4.5 MHz; for example, a TX antenna not
          supporting 10 Kw not eligible for use with an unrestrainable 10 kW
          power amplifier; for example a directional antenna that cannot aim
          over the sector of the chosen communication will not be able to be
20        selected, etc.), and
       *  on the other hand, as a function of the operation priorities and quality
          of service QoS (in the sense of bit rate and quality requirements).
          Typically, when compromises have to be made and when only one
          communication is possible, it is the highest priority communication
25        which will be favoured.
              The reception site 2 comprises several wide band antennas 21k
   connected to a multiplexer 22 linked to a wide band receiver 23 and to an HF
   HUB control module 24.
              The transmission site 1 and the reception site 2 communicate via
30 a communication network 25. In particular, the two HUB control modules of
   these two sites communicate via this communication network to exchange

                                             9
   the commands and the information necessary to the correct operation of the
   HUB function.
                The implementation of the method according to the invention
   comprises an optional first phase of initialization of the system and a second
 s phase of implementation.
                Figure 3 is a block diagram of an example of steps for the
   initialization of the system and of the method according to the invention. The
   method knows the data of the mission or of the application, frequencies of
   interest, waveforms employed, keys, sectors of the different missions.
10              On the transmission side of the station, the method initiates the
   resource management process 301, for example by computing all the AT,
   302, an available configuration for each possible direction, by taking account,
   for example, of the information from the reception site or else from data
   provided by an operator as a function of a targeted application. The value of
1s the period AT is chosen, for example, as a function of the application. It can
   also perform propagation prediction computations for the different missions,
   303, this being optional. A propagation computation resource notably makes
   it possible to refine the scope of the possibilities in terms of the passing
   frequencies, the power requirement, etc. Such information can be used for
20 the computation of the possible configurations.
                On the reception side, the method initializes the n antennas of the
   reception station in listening mode 310. The listening sensor launches as
   many monitoring processes as there are frequencies of interest which are
   allocated to it, 311. In parallel, it can also launch a channel analysis process
25 and, from the results, compute a noise floor, 312, a computation of
   occupancy in the band of the reception antenna, 313, identify sources of
   interference or other communications received on the antenna, 314.
                At the end of the initialization phase, information concerning the
   possible frequencies, the powers needed for an application or a mission, is
30 available. In particular, there may be, for each mission, a default set of

                                           10
   directions of arrival, of passing frequencies, of powers needed to establish a
   communication.
                Figure 4 illustrates an example of implementation of the method
   according to the invention.
 s              The HUB module on the reception site side launches a process of
   monitoring a frequency of interest f,     410i. It performs, 411, a computation
   every 6t of the correlation of the signals received on the n reception antennas
   in order to determine the energy received, 412. The value of 6t is chosen as
   a function of the application. If energy is detected, i.e. the energy value is for
10 example greater than a threshold value defined as for a link request (ALE),
   then there is a beam forming and ALE monitoring according to the protocol of
   the ALE requestor, 413. It will be noted that, in the case where the
   communication is a fixed frequency, the procedure is similar with a listening
   done directly on the fixed frequency. The HUB control module checks
1s whether the link request has been detected within a fixed delay (or timer),
   414. If no link request has arrived within the fixed delay, then this request will
   not be satisfied 415 and the reception site will revert to a frequency listening
   or scanning phase.
                In the case where a link request has arrived before the end of the
20 timer (within the dedicated delay), 416, the control module at the reception
   level will check whether it is possible to establish a communication link. For
   that, it will interrogate the transmission site in order to check whether the
   latter has the necessary resources. If it is not possible to establish a
   communication link, then the reception site returns to the frequency scanning
25 step. If the link can be established, the reception HUB module will establish
   this link by taking account of the information transmitted by the transmission
   site. Such information contains, for example, a response on the availability of
   the transmission resources for the frequency, the power and/or the direction
   requested. The switch to established link mode can then be done and the
30 communication process can start, 417.

                                            11
               In parallel, the control module can also compute the direction of
   arrival (DOA) of the signal and transmit the information to the transmission
   site, 418. This information will be able to be used to determine the
   configuration available for a given direction more accurately. The reception
 s control module can execute a recomputation every 6t' of the optimal beam
   without breaking the link, 419; the value of 6t' is chosen as a function of the
   application.
              On the transmission site side 1, the transmission HUB control
   module computes, every AT, 420, an available configuration for each
10 possible direction (as a function of the mission information, as a function of
   the current links, as a function of operator decisions, etc.), if the reception
   site has communicated direction of arrival information to it, it will also take
   this information into account. The computation of the configuration involves
   methods which will not be detailed because they are known to the person
1s skilled in the art. The Tx resource availability information 421, and the
   information for the configuration are transmitted to the reception site. The
   transmission site starts the communication process, 422. Regularly, during
   the communication, the transmission site can check, 423, if there is a better
   suited configuration to meet the communication link requirement and, when a
20 better configuration exists, the transmission site transmits a configuration
   adaptation command 424 to the communication equipment items 425; if
   necessary, that corresponds either to a modification of the mode of operation
   of the equipment items used for the communication, or to a partial or
   complete change of the equipment items, for example change of antenna or
25 of power amplification.
              According to one embodiment, the HUB control module on the
   transmission    site    side   is   adapted  to  collect  information  on   the
   transmission/reception       chains   produced  (established    communications
   process) during missions to produce statistics on the use of certain
30 frequencies, transmission power, frequency band, etc., and thus define the

                                            12
   number of equipment items needed over the months, for fixed time periods,
   etc.
               According to another variant embodiment, on detection of a priority
   link, the priority level being indicated in the signal received on the antennas
 s (for example in a datum or a data field contained in the frame), the control
   module on the transmission side will be able to free up resources used by a
   current communication in favour of this priority link, Tx mechanism. It will
   execute this variant by using a pre-emption mechanism known to the person
   skilled in the art, for example by a release command to the HUB module, a
10 "hung-up" command to the link controller.
               Without departing from the scope of the invention, the HUB control
   module in reception could, on reception of a second link establishment
   request ALE, place a first current communication on hold, and do so over a
   time period   thld  chosen so as not to distrupt the first current link, in order to
is transmit,    to    the  second    party   requesting     link  establishment,    an
   acknowledgement of reception       Ackrequest of its ALE request and a message
   requesting renewal of its call; for example, "your call cannot be completed,
   we advise you to repeat your request later or to contact another station".
               According to another variant embodiment, the HUB control module
20 in reception can discriminate several calls/communications on one and the
   same frequency with wide band reception on an array of antennas. It is then
   possible to launch        several   beam-forming      processes (n < number       of
   antennas-1) on each monitored frequency.
               The system can also comprise a central system adapted to
25 receive, from the transmission sites, information relating to communication
   requests that these transmission sites cannot take into account because of
   the excessive number of requests. In this case, the central system is capable
   of selecting another transmission site to satisfy a communication request. For
   example, it will be able to invoke one or more of the other transmission sites
30 that it controls to ask them about their capacity to take on these
   communication requests that cannot be handled by the first system, and it

                                          13
   will attribute the communication or communications to the transmission sites
   able to carry them out.
                The system and the method which have just been described are
   used on already existing fixed infrastructures or can be implemented in
 s infrastructures of reasonable dimensions, more mobile, easily deployable
   according to the needs of a given mission.
                The method and the system according to the invention in particular
   allow the radio frequency means of one or more radio sites to be pooled and
   for them to be dynamically allocated to the local or remote users as a
1o function of the services required.
                This dynamic allocation optimizes the cost of acquisition and of
   operation of the network because the number of radios needed is computed
   as a function of the overall capacity required of the radio network and not of
   the number of users. This system can incorporate multi-vendor equipment
is items and therefore be possible to be freed of any dependency with respect
   to the radio suppliers.

                                             14
                                          CLAIMS
   1 - Method for establishing a communication link for a mobile user in a high
   frequency HF communication system comprising at least one transmission
 s site (1) and at least one reception site (2), the two sites being remote from
   one another by a distance D, characterized in that it comprises at least the
   following steps:
          at the reception site (2), by using a wide band receiver (23) i.e. a
           listening band strictly greater than the instantaneous band of
10         maximum possible modulated signals, scanning the signals or the
          frequencies, detecting wether there is a request to establish a
          communication link contained in the signals received on the receiver,
            e   if yes, then transmit this request to establish a communication link
                to transmitters and to a controle module HUB which checks if it
is              possible to establish a communication link and if so who
                determines      a   possible    configuration   and   establishes  a
                communication mode for the mobile user based on configuration
                information calculated by the transmission site,
            e   If no, then return to the scanning step of the received signals.
20
   2 - Method according to Claim 1 comprising at least the following steps:
        * scanning the signals or the frequencies of interest fint for a given
          communication, and estimating the energy level received on the
          frequencies monitored by the wide band receiver (412),
25      e  if the energy value received on the wide band receiver corresponds to
          a fixed frequency FF request or an automatic link establishment ALE
           request, then forming a beam for the communication (413), in the case
          where a link establishment request has been received before the
          expiry of a timer (414), checking whether the transmission site has
30         resources for establishing the requested communication link (416) and

                                           15
          starting a communication mode (417), otherwise returning to the step
          of monitoring on the reception frequencies.
   3 - Method according to Claim 1, characterized in that, for a fixed frequency
 5 FF request, the call is carried out on one and the same frequency.
   4 - Method according to Claim 1, characterized in that, for an ALE request,
   the call is carried out successively or in parallel on several frequencies of
   different values.
10
   5 - Method according to Claim 1, characterized in that the direction of arrival
   of the signal (418) is computed and this information is transmitted to the
   transmission site (1) to determine the transmission configuration available for
   a given configuration.
15
   6 - Method according to one of Claims 1 or 5, characterized in that it
   comprises a step in which the computed configuration is compared with a set
   of existing configurations and, if a better configuration exists, then the HUB
   module transmits the new configuration parameters for the communication
20 process or processes to the driven equipment items (amplifier, matrix, etc.).
   7 - Method according to one of Claims 1 to 6, characterized in that it
   analyses the content of the communication request and, based on the priority
   of the communication, it frees up resources used by a current communication
25 to reassign them to this new communication.
   8 - Method according to one of Claims 1 to 6, characterized in that, on
   reception of a communication request, the method suspends a current
   communication to transmit a wait indication to the new communication.
30

                                           16
   9 - HF communication system comprising at least one transmission site (1)
   and one reception site (2), the two sites being separated by a distance D
   chosen to avoid the disturbances from the transmission site on the reception
   site, characterized in that:
 s     e   the transmission site (1) comprises at least several transmitters (14i)
           linked to a set of transmitting antennas (16j), an HF control module
           (17),
       e   the reception site (2) comprises a wide band receiver (23) and an HF
           control module (24),
10     e   said HF control modules at the transmission site and at the reception
           site are adapted to execute the steps of the method according to one
           of Claims 1 to 8.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

