                              ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
A wireless terminal capable of operating in a discontinuous mode comprising and method for
operating such wireless terminal facilitate measurements pertaining to position of the wireless
terminal. The method includes receiving a message from the radio access network. The
measurement request message is configured to indicate that measurements are to be performed
by the wireless terminal on downlink signals transmitted by the base station or by the base
station on downlink signals transmitted by the base station. The method further comprises, as a
result of or after receiving the message, changing operation of the wireless terminal from a
discontinuous mode to a modified mode to facilitate performance of the measurements.
Relative to the discontinuous mode at least one of following are shortened or eliminated in the
modified mode: (i) the non-reception periods, and (ii) the non-transmission periods. "Changing
from a discontinuous mode... to a modified mode" includes one or more of: (1) changing mode
of the wireless terminal (e.g., changing from a discontinuous mode [such as discontinuous
reception (DRX) or discontinuous transmission (DTX)] to a continuous transmission mode);
(2) changing from the discontinuous mode (a first discontinuous mode) to a modified
discontinuous mode (a second discontinuous mode).

                       2/12
                                       20
               C1         C2       C3
               C4          C5      C6
                          30
                      UE
                                 Fig. 2
                                              3-1
   RECEIVING A MESSAGE FROM THE RADIO ACCESS
                    NETWORK
 CHANGING OPERATION OF THE WIRELESS TERMINAL  3-2
 FROM A DISCONTINUOUS MODE TO A MODIFIED MODE
                      Fig. 3
   RECEIVING A MESSAGE FROM THE RADIO ACCESS
                    NETWORK
  CHANGING OPERATION OF THE WIRELESS TERMINAL 3-2
 FROM A DISCONTINUOUS MODE TO A MODIFIED MODE
REVERTING BACK TO THE DISCONTINUOUS MODE UPON 3-3
     COMPLETION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE
                  MEASUREMENTS
                      Fig. 4

                                               1
TELECOMMUNNICATIONS METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR FACILITATING
                                     MEASUREMENTS
                                    TECHNICAL FIELD
 [00011      This invention pertains to telecommunications, and particularly to method and
     apparatus for performing measurements, particularly when a wireless terminal is or has
     been operating in a discontinuous reception (DRX) and/or a discontinuous transmission
     (DTX) mode.
                                       BACKGROUND
 [00021      In a typical cellular radio system, wireless terminals (also known as mobile
     stations and/or user equipment units (UEs)) communicate via a radio access network
     (RAN) to one or more core networks. The wireless terminals can be mobile stations or
     user equipment units (UE) such as mobile telephones ("cellular" telephones) and
     laptops with wireless capability, e.g., mobile termination, and thus can be, for example,
     portable, pocket, hand-held, computer-included, or car-mounted mobile devices which
     communicate voice and/or data with radio access network.
 [00031      The radio access network (RAN) covers a geographical area which is divided
     into cell areas, with each cell area being served by a base station, e.g., a radio base
     station (RBS), which in some networks is also called "NodeB", "B node", or (in LTE)
     eNodeB. A cell is a geographical area where radio coverage is provided by the radio
     base station equipment at a base station site. Each cell is identified by an identity
     within the local radio area, which is broadcast in the cell. The base stations
     communicate over the air interface operating on radio frequencies with the user
     equipment units (UE) within range of the base stations.
 [00041      In some versions of radio access networks, several base stations are typically
     connected (e.g., by landlines or microwave) to a radio network controller (RNC). The
     radio network controller, also sometimes termed a base station controller (BSC),
     supervises and coordinates various activities of the plural base stations connected
     thereto. The radio network controllers are typically connected to one or more core
     networks.
 [00051      The Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) is a third
     generation mobile communication system, which evolved from the Global System for

                                            2
   Mobile Communications (GSM), and is intended to provide improved mobile
   communication services based on Wideband Code Division Multiple Access
   (WCDMA) access technology. UTRAN is essentially a radio access network using
   wideband code division multiple access for user equipment units (UEs). An entity
   known as the Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) has undertaken to evolve
   further the UTRAN and GSM based radio access network technologies.
[00061 Specifications for the Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E
   UTRAN) are ongoing within the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP). Another
   name used for E-UTRAN is the Long Term Evolution (LTE) Radio Access Network
   (RAN). Long Term Evolution (LTE) is a variant of a 3GPP radio access technology
   wherein the radio base station nodes are connected directly to a core network rather
   than to radio network controller (RNC) nodes. In general, in LTE the functions of a
   radio network controller (RNC) node are performed by the radio base stations nodes.
   As such, the radio access network (RAN) of an LTE system has an essentially "flat"
   architecture comprising radio base station nodes without reporting to radio network
   controller (RNC) nodes. The evolved UTRAN (E-UTRAN) comprises evolved base
   station nodes, e.g., evolved NodeBs or eNBs, providing evolved UTRA user-plane and
   control-plane protocol terminations toward the wireless terminal.
[00071 In LTE as in other radio access technologies, it is advantageous for the network to
   know with reasonable accuracy the geographical position of a wireless terminal (UE).
   In fact, some countries or jurisdictions mandate that the network be able to locate the
   UE within a prescribed distance range (e.g., a few tens of meters) and within a
   stipulated time duration. This requirement is often imposed for facilitating services to
   UE, such as emergency services to a person operating the UE, or for security
   management reasons.
[00081 Knowledge of the UE's geographical whereabouts typically comes from the UE
   determining its own geographical position and reporting that geographical position to
   the network, as well as to the person operating the UE. This capability for the person
   operating the UE to know his/her location can be of considerable value to the UE
   operator, and indeed subscriptions to such location-reporting service can be a source of
   revenue for a network operator.
[00091 The Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) is the standard generic term for
   satellite navigation systems that enable subscribers such as UE operators to locate their
   position and to acquire other relevant navigational information. The global positioning

                                             3
   system (GPS) and the European Galileo positioning system are well known examples
   of GNSS.
[00101 Not only Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) but also non-GNSS
   positioning methods have been employed for determining UE position. According to
   one proposal, in some contexts a GNSS based-positioning method may be employed as
   a primary positioning technique, while a non-GNSS positioning method may be
   employed as a secondary or backup positioning technique. See, in this regard, RP
    080995, Work Item, "Positioning Support for LTE", Qualcomm (Rapporteur), which is
   incorporated herein by reference. Other UE positioning techniques are described, e.g.,
   in the following: (1) RP-070926, Study Item, "Evaluation of the inclusion of Pattern
   Matching Technology in the UTRAN", Polaris Wireless (Rapporteur); and (2) RP
    090354, Work Item, "Networl2-Based Positioning Support for LTE", True Position
   (Rapporteur), both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
[00111 The non-GNSS positioning methods are often also referred to as terrestrial
   positioning methods. These terrestrial positioning methods usually determine UE
   position on the basis of signals measured by the UE and/or radio network nodes such as
   base station. Examples of such signals and methods include cell identity based
   methods; networl2-based methods which detect the uplink time difference of arrival
   (U-TDOA) of signals at different base stations; UE-based methods which observe the
   time difference of arrival (OTDOA) of signals from three or more cells; and
   fingerprinting or pattern matching positioning methods.
[00121 Some of these terrestrial positioning methods such as cell ID based and pattern
   matching positioning technology make use of normal UE neighbor cell measurements
   such as the detected cell identity, received signal strength, path loss etc. On the other
   hand, certain methods such as U-TDOA and OTDOA require specific measurements.
    Some of the measurements such as time difference of arrival can also be reused for
   other purposes such as time alignment at handover, support for cell synchronization,
   etc.
[00131 In the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), a layer 3 protocol known as the
   Radio Resource Control (RRC) layer defines various RRC states to describe the usage
   of radio resources for the UE. There is a difference in the number of states in UTRAN
   on the one hand, and LTE on the other hand.

                                             4
[00141 The 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) also supports a feature known as
   discontinuous reception (DRX). Discontinuous reception (DRX) enables a UE to save
   power by turning off some or all of its radio circuitry when not needed, thereby
   increasing battery lifetime of the UE. Discontinuous reception (DRX) is described and
   utilized in another perspective in US Patent Application 12/475,953, filed June 1, 2009,
   entitled "USING MOBILITY STATISTICS TO ENCHANCE
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS HANDOVER", which is incorporated herein by reference
   in its entirety.
[00151 In UTRAN there are several RRC states: Idle state; CELLPCH state;
   URAPCH state; CELLFACH state; and CELLDCH state. In E-UTRAN in idle
   state the UE is known on a tracking area level, which comprises of multiple set of cells
   (e.g. 100-300 cells). Similarly in the CELLDCH state the UE uses dedicated radio
   resources that are not shared with other UEs; the UE is known on a cell level according
   to its current active set; and, the UE can use dedicated transport channels, downlink and
   uplink shared transport channels, or a combination of transport channels. In the
   UTRAN CELLFACH state no dedicated physical channel is assigned to the UE; the
   UE continuously monitors a FACH channel in the downlink; and, the UE is assigned a
   default common or shared transport channel in the uplink (e.g., RACH). In the
   UTRAN CELLPCH or URAPCH state no dedicated physical channels is assigned to
   the UE; no uplink activity is possible; and, the UE receives paging or broadcasting
   information from the UTRAN. Discontinuous reception (DRX) is now used in all these
   UTRAN RCC states according to 3GPP release 7 and beyond. But for the
   CELLFACH and CELDCH states the allowed DRX cycles are much shorter.
    Specifically, for CELLDCH max DRX cycle         = 40 ms.
[00161 For LTE there are only two RRC states: Idle state and Connected state. DRX is
   used in both LTE states, with the DRX cycles in both states ranging from 10 ms to 2.56
   sec.
[00171    Although the ensuing discussion and description focus on discontinuous reception
   (DRX) operation in LTE, it should be understand that the discussion and descriptions
   are not limited to LTE but can apply to other environments including UTRAN.
[00181 A DRX "cycle" comprises an "on duration" and a "DRX period". During the "on
   duration" portion of the cycle the user equipment unit (UE) should monitor a channel
   known as the Dedicated Physical Control CHannel (PDCCH) for scheduling
   assignments in RRC connected state. In LTE the paging is also mapped on PDCCH.

                                             5
   Therefore UE in idle state also monitors PDCCH for the reception of paging. During
   the "DRX period" the UE can skip reception of downlink channels for battery saving
   purposes. Thus DRX has a tradeoff between battery saving and latency: on the one
   hand, a long DRX period is beneficial for lengthening the battery life of the UE; on the
   other hand, a shorter DRX period is better for faster response when data transfer is
   resumed.
[00191 In general the DRX function is configured and controlled by the network. The
   UE behavior is based on a set of rules that define when the UE must monitor the
   Dedicated Physical Control CHannel (PDCCH) for scheduling assignments.
[00201 When the UE does not have an established radio-resource control (RRC)
   connection, i.e., when no radio bearers are configured for radio transmission involving
   the UE, the UE is generally "asleep" abut wakes up and monitors the paging every
   DRX cycle.
[00211 On the other hand, when the UE has an RRC connection and the DRX function is
   operative (e.g., RRC connected state in LTE), the DRX function is characterized by the
   aforementioned DRX cycle, the aforementioned on-duration period, and an inactivity
   timer. The UE wakes up and monitors the PDCCH at the beginning of every DRX
   cycle for the entire on duration period. When a scheduling message is received during
   an "on duration", the UE starts the inactivity timer and monitors the PDCCH in every
   subframe while the inactivity timer is running. During this period, the UE can be
   regarded as being in a reception mode. Whenever a scheduling message is received
   while the inactivity timer is running, the UE restarts the inactivity timer. When the
   inactivity timer expires the UE moves back into another DRX cycle. If no scheduling
   assignment is received, the UE falls asleep again.
[00221 Thus, in E-UTRAN or LTE the DRX feature is used in both idle and RRC
   connected modes. The aforementioned positioning measurements are typically done in
   connected mode. Furthermore in E-UTRAN, there can be a wide range of DRX cycles
   (e.g., cycle lengths) for use in the RRC connected mode as allowed by the network.
   For example, the DRX (i.e., the time length of the DRX cycle) can vary between 10 ms
   to 2.56 seconds. With the increase in the DRX cycle, there is more time between
   measurements, and thus the measurement performance of measurement quantities can
   deteriorate since the UE may only sparsely (e.g., less frequently) measure on signals
   received from the cells. When the UE is in the DRX state the measurement period can

                                            6
   also be set to be longer and the length of the measurement period can vary with the
   DRX cycle.
[00231 Measurement period is a concept well known in telecommunications, e.g.
   UTRAN and E-UTRAN. As illustrated in Fig. 16, one measurement period requires
   comprises several samples (e.g. 4-5 samples) from each of the cells being samples. The
   number of samples can vary, e.g., can be implementation-specific. Fig. 16 illustrates a
   situation in which there are (by way of example) four cells whose signals are measured,
   and four samplings of each cell. In a non-DRX mode the measurement period is
   standardized to be 200 milliseconds. The samplings for the cells can be averaged over
   the measurement period.
[00241 Typically the measurement period of a measurement quantity is K times the DRX
   cycle, e.g. 5 times the DRX. As an example for DRX cycle of 2.56 seconds the
   measurement period of reference signal received power (RSRP), which is LTE
   measurement quantity, is approximately 10.28 seconds. During a single measurement
   period the wireless terminal (UE) is also capable of performing a particular type of
   measurement (such as RSRP) from certain number of cells, e.g. 6 or 8 cells including
   the serving cell. The measurement periods of all standardized measurement quantities
   for the continuous reception (non DRX case) and for all allowed DRX cycles are pre
   defined in the 3GPP standard. Similarly the number of cells from which the UE is
   required to perform certain measurement quantity over the measurement period is also
   specified in the standard.
[00251 So if the measurement period of the positioning measurement is also     extended
   due to DRX, then the measurement reporting delay will increase, and thus    the response
   time in determining the wireless terminal (UE) positioning will be longer.   These
   phenomena can negatively impact accuracy of a determination of wireless     terminal
   (UE) position.
[00261 The accuracy of UE positioning determination can not only be affected by
   discontinuous reception (DRX), but by discontinuous transmission (DTX) as well.
   That is, discontinuous transmission (DTX) such as discontinuous power control and use
   of idle gaps for measurements, can also affect the positioning performance.
   Discontinuous transmission (DTX) is characterized by periodic pattern of activity or
   transmission followed by relatively longer inactivity or idle periods.

                                             7
[00271 In case of uplink discontinuous transmission (DTX) the base station will less
   frequently (e.g., sparsely) receive signals from the UE, and hence would have less
   opportunity for performing measurements. A longer discontinuous transmission (DTX)
   will lead to longer measurement period and thus longer response time in determining
   the UE position. For instance, a round trip time (RTT) measurement done at the base
   station for network based positioning will be delayed when discontinuous transmission
   (DTX) is used.
[00281 In UTRAN, discontinuous transmission (DTX) is characterized by discontinuous
   power control channel (DPCCH) and is used to reduce the interference and UE power.
    Similarly other idle gaps such as compressed mode gaps and measurement gaps are
   used in UTRAN and E-UTRAN respectively.
[00291 Positioning measurements are typically performed in RRC connected state. In
   legacy systems such as UTRAN FDD and TDD, some positioning specific
   measurements and corresponding procedures exist. In these legacy systems the longest
   allowed discontinuous reception (DRX) cycle in RRC connected state is limited to 40
   ms, and the measurement period of all UE measurements (including positioning
   measurements) scales with the DRX cycle. For instance, the WCDMA SFN-SFN type
   2 positioning related measurement is performed, when UE receiver is active,
   simultaneously to data reception. This means, depending upon the DRX cycle, the
   measurement period in DRX is longer than in the non DRX case. However due to
   shorter DRX (40 ms) in UTRAN CELLDCH, the impact of the DRX on the
   positioning performance is not very significant.
[00301 In E-UTRAN the DRX cycle in RRC connected state can range up to 2.56
   seconds. In DRX state traditionally the measurement period of a measurement quantity
   is K times DRX cycle, e.g. 10.28 seconds for 2.56 seconds DRX cycle assuming
   scaling factor of 5. This level of measurement period is very long for the positioning
   measurement. Therefore scaling of the measurement period when discontinuous
   reception (DRX) in E-UTRAN is used is not desirable. This is because the extended
   measurement period will adversely affect the positioning accuracy (i.e. response from
   UE) and might prevent achieving the positioning accuracy requirements.
[00311 The discontinuous transmission (DTX) may also impact the accuracy and
   response time of positioning performance. Especially uplink measurements such as
   round trip time (RTT) can be delayed if the UE is operating under longer DTX level or
   cycle.

                                            8
                                      SUMMARY
[00321 In one of its diverse aspects the technology disclosed herein concerns a method of
   operating a wireless terminal in communication with a radio access network over a
   radio interface. The wireless terminal is of a type capable of operating in a
   discontinuous mode comprising at least one of non-reception periods between reception
   periods and non-transmission periods between transmission periods. The method
   comprises receiving a message from the radio access network that indicates that
   measurements are to be performed by the wireless terminal on downlink signals
   transmitted by one or more nodes of the radio access network (e.g., on downlink signals
   transmitted by the base station) or by the radio access network on uplink signals
   transmitted by the wireless terminal. The method further comprises, as a result of or
   after receiving the message, changing operation of the wireless terminal from a
   discontinuous mode to a modified mode to facilitate performance of the measurements.
   Relative to the discontinuous mode at least one of following are shortened or
   eliminated in the modified mode: (i) the non-reception periods, and (ii) the non
   transmission periods.
[00331 In some example embodiments, the measurements are performed by the wireless
   terminal and the message is a measurement request message which is configured to
   direct the wireless terminal to perform measurements relative to signals received by the
   wireless terminal from one or more cells of the radio access network. In other example
   embodiments the message is transmitted when the radio access network is to perform
   the measurements and the wireless terminal needs to be in the modified mode during
   performance of the measurements.
[00341 As explained and utilized herein, "changing from a discontinuous mode ... to a
   modified mode" comprises one or more of: (1) changing mode of the wireless terminal
   (e.g., changing from a discontinuous mode [such as discontinuous reception (DRX) or
   discontinuous transmission (DTX)] to a continuous transmission mode); (2) changing
   from the discontinuous mode (a first discontinuous mode) to a modified discontinuous
   mode (a second discontinuous mode). The changing from the (first) discontinuous
   mode to a modified (second) discontinuous mode can involve changing a parameter or
   value associated with the discontinuous mode, e.g., changing (e.g., shortening) a
   parameter or value such as a discontinuous reception (DRX) cycle value or a
   discontinuous transmission (DTX) level value.

                                             9
[00351 In an example embodiment the discontinuous mode is a discontinuous reception
   (DRX) mode. In another example embodiment the discontinuous mode is a
   discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode. In yet another example embodiment the
   discontinuous mode includes both discontinuous reception (DRX) mode and
   discontinuous transmission (DTX).
[00361 In an example embodiment the modified mode is a continuous mode. In another
   example embodiment the modified mode comprises a modified discontinuous mode
   having a modified discontinuous mode parameter, the modified discontinuous mode
   parameter being indicative of a shorter cycle than a previous discontinuous mode
   parameter. In this latter embodiment, the act of changing, as a result of receiving the
   message, can comprise changing from a first discontinuous mode characterized by a
   first discontinuous mode value to a second discontinuous mode characterized by a
   second discontinuous mode value; and, upon completion of the performance of the
   measurements; reverting back to the first discontinuous mode. In an example
   embodiment, the second discontinuous mode value is smaller or shorter than the first
   discontinuous mode value. In an example implementation, the discontinuous mode is a
   discontinuous reception (DRX) mode and the first discontinuous mode value and the
   second discontinuous mode value are differing discontinuous reception (DRX) cycle
   lengths. In another example implementation, the discontinuous mode is a
   discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode and the first discontinuous mode value and the
   second discontinuous mode value are differing discontinuous transmission (DTX) level
   values.
[00371 In an example embodiment the measurements are for determining position of the
   wireless terminal. In an example implementation, the message is a measurement
   request message which is configured to direct the wireless terminal to measure time
   difference of arrival of the signals received by the wireless terminal from plural cells of
   the radio access network. In another example implementation the measurement request
   message is configured to direct the wireless terminal to measure reference signal time
   difference (RSTD) of signals received by the wireless terminal from plural cells of the
   radio access network. The RSTD measurement can be performed by the wireless
   terminal on any suitable reference or pilot or any known signals received from plural
   cells. For instance the reference signals may be common reference signals, which are
   also used for other measurements, or positioning reference signals, which are primarily
   transmitted to facilitate positioning measurement.

                                           10
[00381 In an example embodiment, the method further comprises changing from the
   discontinuous mode in accordance with a mode change timing factor (MCTF) which
   influences when a mode change occurs from the discontinuous mode to the modified
   mode. In an example implementation the method further comprises pre-configuring the
   mode change timing factor (MCTF) at the wireless terminal prior to reception of the
   message. In another example implementation the method further comprises including
   the mode change timing factor (MCTF) in the message.
[00391 In an example embodiment the method further comprises, upon completion of the
   performance of the measurements, reverting back to the discontinuous mode from the
   modified mode after expiration of a post-measurement mode revert timing factor
   (MRTF) which influences timing of a reversion from the modified mode to the
   discontinuous mode.
[00401 In an example embodiment, changing from the discontinuous mode to the
   modified mode comprises disabling one or both of discontinuous reception (DRX) and
   discontinuous transmission (DTX).
[00411 In another of its aspects the technology disclosed herein concerns another method
   of operating a wireless terminal in communication with a radio access network over a
   radio interface. The method comprises receiving a message from the radio access
   network that indicates that measurements are to be performed by the wireless terminal
   on downlink signals transmitted by one or more nodes of the radio access network (e.g.,
   on downlink signals transmitted by the base station) or by the radio access network on
   uplink signals transmitted by the wireless terminal; and, as a result of receiving the
   message, ignoring or modifying the discontinuous mode while the wireless terminal
   performs the measurements. In some example embodiments the message is a
   measurement request message which is configured to direct the wireless terminal to
   perform measurements on signals received by the wireless terminal from one or more
   cells of the radio access network.
[00421 In another of its aspects the technology disclosed herein concerns another method
   of operating a wireless terminal in communication with a radio access network over a
   radio interface. The method comprises receiving a message from the radio access
   network that indicates that measurements are to be performed by the wireless terminal
   on downlink signals transmitted by the base station or by the radio access network on
   uplink signals transmitted by the wireless terminal; and, as a result of receiving the
   message; providing a shorter or moderate measurement period for the wireless terminal

                                             11
   to perform the measurements corresponding to that of a shorter or a moderate DRX
   cycle. In some example embodiments the message is a measurement request message
   which is configured to direct the wireless terminal to perform measurements on signals
   received by the wireless terminal from one or more cells of the radio access network.
[00431 In another of its aspects the technology disclosed herein concerns a wireless
   terminal configured for communication with a radio access network over a radio
   interface. The wireless terminal is of a type capable of operating in a discontinuous
   mode comprising at least one of non-reception periods between reception periods and
   non-transmission periods between transmission periods. The wireless terminal
   comprises a transceiver and a computer-implemented radio resource control (RRC)
   unit. The transceiver is configured to receive a message from the radio access network
   that indicates that measurements are to be performed by the wireless terminal on
   downlink signals transmitted by the base station or by the radio access network on
   uplink signals transmitted by the wireless terminal. The radio resource control (RRC)
   unit is configured, as a result of receiving the message, to change the wireless terminal
   from the discontinuous mode to a modified mode to facilitate performance of the
   measurements. The discontinuous mode is configured to comprise at least one of non
   reception periods between reception periods and non-transmission periods between
   transmission periods. Relative to the discontinuous mode the modified mode is
   configured to shortened or eliminated at least one of following: (i) the non-reception
   periods, and (ii) the non-transmission periods. In some example embodiments the
   message is a measurement request message which is configured to direct the wireless
   terminal to perform measurements relative to the position determination signals, and
   the transceiver is configured to received position determination signals from one or
   more cells of the radio access network.
[00441 In an example embodiment the discontinuous mode is a discontinuous reception
   (DRX) mode. In another example embodiment the discontinuous mode is a
   discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode.
[00451    In an example embodiment the modified mode is a continuous mode. In another
   example embodiment the modified mode comprises a modified discontinuous mode
   having a modified parameter, the modified parameter being shorter than a previous
   parameter.
[00461    In an example embodiment the radio resource control (RRC) unit is further
   configured, as a result of receiving the message, to change the operation of the wireless

                                             12
   terminal from a first discontinuous mode characterized by a first discontinuous mode
   value to a second discontinuous mode characterized by a second discontinuous mode
   value; and, upon completion of the performance of the measurements, to revert back to
   the first discontinuous mode. In an example implementation, the second discontinuous
   mode value is smaller or shorter than the first discontinuous mode value. In an
   example implementation, the discontinuous mode is a discontinuous reception (DRX)
   mode and the first discontinuous mode value and the second discontinuous mode value
   are differing discontinuous reception (DRX) cycle lengths. In another example
   implementation, the discontinuous mode is a discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode
   and the first discontinuous mode value and the second discontinuous mode value are
   differing discontinuous transmission (DTX) level values.
[00471 In an example embodiment the wireless terminal further comprises a
   measurement unit configured to perform the measurements for determining position of
   the wireless terminal. In an example implementation the measurement request message
   is configured to direct the measurement unit of the wireless terminal to measure time
   difference of arrival of the signals received by the wireless terminal from plural cells of
   the radio access network. In another example implementation the measurement request
   message is configured to direct the measurement unit of the wireless terminal to
   measure reference signal time difference (RSTD) of signals received by the wireless
   terminal from plural cells of the radio access network.
[00481 In an example embodiment the radio resource control (RRC) unit is configured to
   change from the discontinuous mode in accordance with a mode change timing factor
   (MCTF) which influences when a mode change occurs from the discontinuous mode to
   the modified mode. In an example implementation the mode change timing factor
   (MCTF) is pre-configured at the wireless terminal prior to reception of the message. In
   another example implementation the mode change timing factor (MCTF) is included in
   the message.
[00491 In an example embodiment the radio resource control (RRC) unit is further
   configured, upon completion of the performance of the measurements, to revert back to
   the discontinuous mode from the modified mode after expiration of a post
   measurement mode revert timing factor (MRTF) which influences timing of a reversion
   from the modified mode to the discontinuous mode.

                                             13
[00501 In an example embodiment the radio resource control (RRC) unit is configured to
   change from the discontinuous mode to the modified mode by disabling one or both of
   discontinuous reception (DRX) and discontinuous transmission (DTX).
[00511 In another of its aspects the technology disclosed herein concerns a wireless
   terminal configured to operate in communication with a radio access network over a
   radio interface. The wireless terminal comprises a transceiver and a computer
   implemented radio resource control (RRC) unit. The transceiver is configured to
   receive a message from the radio access network that indicates that measurements are
   to be performed by the wireless terminal on downlink signals transmitted by the base
   station or the radio access network on uplink signals transmitted by the wireless
   terminal. The radio resource control (RRC) unit of the wireless terminal is configured,
   as a result of receiving the message, to ignore or modify the discontinuous mode while
   the wireless terminal while the wireless terminal performs the measurements. In an
   example embodiment, the message is a measurement request message which is
   configured to direct the wireless terminal to perform measurements for the position
   determination signals on signals transmitted from plural cells of the radio access
   network, and the transceiver is further configured to receive position determination
   signals from one or more cells of the radio access network.
[00521 In another of its aspects the technology disclosed herein concerns a node of a
   radio access network (RAN) which is configured for operation over a radio interface
   with a wireless terminal. The node comprises a computer-implemented node radio
   resource control (RRC) unit and a transceiver. The radio resource control (RRC) unit is
   configured to prepare a measurement request message for transmission to the wireless
   terminal. The measurement request message is configured both to direct the wireless
   terminal to perform measurements for the position determination on signals transmitted
   from plural cells of the radio access network and to provide the wireless terminal with a
   parameter to be used by the wireless terminal for facilitating performance of the
   measurements by the wireless terminal by changing operation of the wireless terminal
   from a discontinuous mode to a modified mode. The discontinuous mode is configured
   to comprise at least one of non-reception periods between reception periods and non
   transmission periods between transmission periods. Relative to the discontinuous mode
   the modified mode is configured to shortened or eliminated at least one of following:
   (i) the non-reception periods, and (ii) the non-transmission periods. The transceiver is
   configured to transmit the measurement request message to the wireless terminal over
   the radio interface.

                                            14
[00531 In an example embodiment the discontinuous parameter is for a discontinuous
    reception (DRX) mode. In another example embodiment the discontinuous parameter
    is for a discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode. In yet another example embodiment
    the discontinuous parameter encompasses one or more of the discontinuous reception
    (DRX) mode the discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode.
[00541 In an example embodiment the measurements are for determining position of the
    wireless terminal.
[00551 In an example embodiment the measurement request message is configured to
    direct the wireless terminal to measure time difference of arrival of the signals received
    by the wireless terminal from plural cells of the radio access network. In another
    example embodiment the measurement request message is configured to direct the
    wireless terminal to measure reference signal time difference (RSTD) of signals
    received by the wireless terminal from plural cells of the radio access network.
[00561 In an example embodiment the discontinuous parameter comprises a pre-change
    time offset. In another example embodiment the discontinuous parameter comprises a
    post-measurement mode revert timing factor (MRTF) which influences timing of a
    reversion from the modified mode to the discontinuous mode.
 [0056a] In a further aspect the present invention provides a method of operating a
    wireless terminal in communication with a radio access network over a radio interface
    including:
    while the wireless terminal is in a discontinuous reception (DRX) mode including idle
    periods, receiving a message from the radio access network indicating                   that
    measurements are to be performed by the wireless terminal on downlink signals
    transmitted from one or more cells of the radio access network or be performed by one
    or more cells of the radio access network on uplink signals transmitted by the wireless
    terminal; and
    in response to receiving the message, shortening or eliminating at least one idle period
    of the DRX mode.
 [0056b] In another aspect the present invention provides a wireless terminal including:
    at least one processor;
    at least one memory including instructions which, when executed by the processor,
    cause the wireless terminal to:

                                            15
   receive a message from the radio access network indicating that measurements are to be
   performed by the wireless terminal on downlink signals transmitted from one or more
   cells of the radio access network or be performed by one or more cells of the radio
   access network on uplink signals transmitted by the wireless terminal; and
   in response to receiving the message, shortening or eliminating at least one idle period
   of a discontinuous reception (DRX) mode.
[00571 Thus the technology disclosed herein encompasses defining a rule or set of rules
   need to facilitate positioning measurements when wireless terminal (UE) is in
   DTX/DRX modes. Such rules ensure good positioning performance to guarantee that
   various regulatory requirements and emergency call service targets are met.
[00581 Therefore, suitable procedures and methods and apparatus are provided for
   performing positioning related measurements such as observed time difference of
   arrival in DRX state. The technology disclosed herein discloses method and
   arrangement for the time difference of signals arrival type of measurements for
   determining UE positioning in DRX state. The technology disclosed herein also
   discloses methods for performing positioning measurements in DTX mode. The
   technology disclosed herein is applicable to other positioning measurements performed
   by wireless terminal (UE) or by the network node in DRX and/or DTX states. The
   technology disclosed herein is also applicable for any measurement performed by the
   wireless terminal (UE) or by the network node in DRX and/or DTX states.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00591 The foregoing and other objects, features, and advantages of the invention will be
   apparent from the following more particular description of preferred embodiments as
   illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which reference characters refer to the
   same parts throughout the various views. The drawings are not necessarily to scale,
   emphasis instead being placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention.
[00601    Fig. 1 is schematic diagram of a portion of a radio access network including a
   representative network node and a representative wireless terminal.
[00611 Fig. 2 is a topographical view of an example cell arrangement for a
   communications network.

                                           16
[00621 Fig. 3 is a flowchart showing basic, example acts or steps comprising an example
   embodiment of a method of operating a wireless terminal.
[00631 Fig. 4 is a flowchart showing basic, example acts or steps comprising an example
   embodiment of a method of operating a wireless terminal which includes an act of the
   wireless terminal reverting back from the modified mode to the discontinuous mode
   upon completion of the performance of the measurements.
[00641 Fig. 5 is a diagrammatic view generically illustrating the concept of changing
   from a discontinuous mode to a modified mode. Fig. 5A - Fig. 5C are diagrammatic
   views showing example specific situation of changing from a discontinuous mode to a
   modified mode.
[00651 Fig. 6 is schematic diagram of a portion of representative wireless terminal
   according to an example embodiment.
[00661 Fig. 7 is schematic diagram of a portion of a radio access network including a
   representative network node and a representative wireless terminal wherein a mode
   change from a discontinuous mode to a modified mode occurs in accordance with a
   mode change timing factor.
[00671   Fig. 8 is a diagrammatic view illustrating a timing sequence of the network of Fig.
   7.
[00681 Fig. 9 is schematic diagram of a portion of a radio access network including a
   representative network node and a representative wireless terminal wherein, upon
   completion of the performance of the measurements, the wireless terminal reverts back
   to a discontinuous mode from a modified mode in accordance with a post-measurement
   mode revert timing factor.
[00691 Fig. 10 is a diagrammatic view illustrating a timing sequence of the network of
   Fig. 9.
[00701 Fig. 11 is a flowcharting showing example acts or steps included in a non-limiting
   example method of a mode change operation which involves changing from a
   discontinuous mode to a continuous mode.

                                             17
[00711 Fig. 12 is a flowcharting showing example acts or steps included in a non-limiting
   example method of a mode change operation which involves changing from a first
   discontinuous mode to a second discontinuous mode having a shortened cycle length.
[00721 Fig. 13 is a schematic diagram of a portion of an example embodiment of a radio
   access network including a representative network node and a representative wireless
   terminal wherein the network node directs the wireless terminal to discontinue the
   discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode while the network node makes position
   measurements for the wireless terminal.
[00731 Fig. 14 is a flowcharting showing example acts or steps included in a non-limiting
   example method of a mode change operation for the embodiment of Fig. 13.
[00741 Fig. 15 is a diagrammatic view which contrasts an example measurement period
   of a discontinuous mode situation and an example measurement period of a non
   discontinuous mode situation resulting from a mode change.
[00751    Fig. 16 is a diagrammatic view showing an example measurement period.
[00761 Fig. 17 is a flowchart showing basic, example acts or steps comprising another
   example embodiment of a method of operating a wireless terminal encountering an
   emergency situation.
[00771 Fig. 18 is a flowchart showing basic, example acts or steps comprising an
   example embodiment of a method of operating a wireless terminal which includes an
   act of the wireless terminal reverting back from the modified mode to the discontinuous
   mode upon cessation of an emergency situation.
                              DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00781 In the following description, for purposes of explanation and not limitation,
   specific details are set forth such as particular architectures, interfaces, techniques, etc.
   in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However, it will
   be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced in
   other embodiments that depart from these specific details. That is, those skilled in the
   art will be able to devise various arrangements which, although not explicitly described
   or shown herein, embody the principles of the invention and are included within its
   spirit and scope. In some instances, detailed descriptions of well-known devices,

                                            18
   circuits, and methods are omitted so as not to obscure the description of the present
   invention with unnecessary detail. All statements herein reciting principles, aspects,
   and embodiments of the invention, as well as specific examples thereof, are intended to
   encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally, it is
   intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as
   equivalents developed in the future, i.e., any elements developed that perform the same
   function, regardless of structure.
[00791 Thus, for example, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that block
   diagrams herein can represent conceptual views of illustrative circuitry embodying the
   principles of the technology. Similarly, it will be appreciated that any flow charts, state
   transition diagrams, pseudocode, and the like represent various processes which may be
   substantially represented in computer readable medium and so executed by a computer
   or processor, whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown.
[00801 The functions of the various elements including functional blocks labeled or
   described as "computer", "processor" or "controller" may be provided through the use
   of dedicated hardware as well as hardware capable of executing software in the form of
   coded instructions stored on computer readable medium. A computer is generally
   understood to comprise one or more processors and/or controllers, and the terms
   computer and processor may be employed interchangeably herein. When provided by a
   computer or processor, the functions may be provided by a single dedicated computer
   or processor, by a single shared computer or processor, or by a plurality of individual
   computers or processors, some of which may be shared or distributed. Such functions
   are to be understood as being computer-implemented and thus machine-implemented.
   Moreover, use of the term "processor" or "controller" shall also be construed to refer to
   other hardware capable of performing such functions and/or executing software, and
   may include, without limitation, digital signal processor (DSP) hardware, reduced
   instruction set processor, hardware (e.g., digital or analog) circuitry, and (where
   appropriate) state machines capable of performing such functions.
[00811 Fig. 1 shows an example communications network 20 such as a radio access
   network (RAN). The network 20 comprises, among other possible entities, network
   node 22 which communicates with wireless terminal 30. In some example
   implementations network node 22 takes the form of a radio network controller node
   (RNC). In other example embodiments such as LTE implementations the network
   node 22 can instead take the form of a radio base station or eNodeB.

                                               19
[00821 The wireless terminal 30 can be a mobile station or user equipment unit (UE)
    such as a mobile telephone ("cellular" telephone) and or a laptop with wireless
   capability, e.g., mobile termination, and thus can be, for example, portable, pocket,
   hand-held, computer-included, or car-mounted mobile devices which communicate
   voice and/or data with radio access network. In various drawings the wireless terminal
    30 is illustrated as or referred to as a "UE". The wireless terminal 30 communicates
   over a radio or air interface 32 with communications network 20. Typically the
   network node 22 is in communication with many wireless terminals, but for sake of
   simplicity only one such wireless terminal 30 is shown.
[00831 Fig. 2 depicts in topographical format portions of a cellular arrangement of
   communications network 20, showing specifically example cells C1 - C6. A base
   station node is associated with each cell. Fig. 2 further shows a representative wireless
   terminal 30 being located within cell C5 of communications network 20. In view, e.g.,
   of its CDMA capabilities and handover capabilities, the wireless terminal 30 monitors
   (e.g., measures) signals associated with each cell, e.g., pilot signals which include an
   identification of the cell from which they are transmitted.
[00841 Fig. 1 shows wireless terminal 30 as comprising, in its most basic form,
   transceiver 34 and processor or computer 40. The transceiver 34 serves to facilitate one
   or both of downlink transmissions from communications network 20 to wireless
   terminal 30 and uplink transmissions from wireless terminal 30 to communications
   network 20. The transceiver 34 generally comprises antenna(s), amplifiers, and
   associated hardware elements for transmitting and receiving radio signals over radio
   interface 32.
[00851 The computer 40 serves many purposes, including execution of instructions for
   enabling operation of wireless terminal 30 in conjunction with its own operation as well
   as transmission of signals and data over radio interface 32. For illustrating the basic
   aspect of the technology disclosed herein Fig. 1 shows computer 40 as comprising radio
   resource control (RRC) unit 42, which in turn comprises measurement unit 44. It
   should be appreciated that, in other example embodiments, the measurement unit 44
   can be located or provided externally to radio resource control (RRC) unit 42. As
   explained herein, measurement unit 42 serves to perform measurements relative to
   plural cells of network 20 (see Fig. 2).
[00861 The wireless terminals described herein are of a type capable of operating in a
   discontinuous mode. As used herein "discontinuous mode" comprises or encompasses

                                              20
   at least one of non-reception periods between reception periods and non-transmission
   periods between transmission periods. A discontinuous mode comprising non
   reception periods between reception periods is also known as a discontinuous reception
   (DRX). A discontinuous mode comprising non-transmission periods between
   transmission periods is also known as a discontinuous transmission (DTX).
[00871 Fig. 1 illustrates a non-limiting implementation of network node 28 in a LTE
   environment in which network node 28 is an eNodeB (e.g., base station node). Fig. 1
   further shows network node 28 as comprising node transceiver 48 and node processor
   or node computer 50. The node transceiver 48 typically comprises plural antenna along
   with associated electronics such as amplifiers, for example. The node computer 50
   comprises node radio resource control (RRC) unit 52.
[00881 As used herein, "transceiver" should be understood to encompass, at least in some
   embodiments, plural transceivers. Moreover, the fact that a transceiver of either the
   wireless terminal 30 or the network node 28 can be involved in a discontinuous
   reception (DRX) mode of operation on the downlink does not necessarily mean that the
   transceiver is also involved in a discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode of operation
   on the uplink, or vice versa.
[00891 One of the aspects of the technology disclosed herein concerns a method of
   operating a wireless terminal such as wireless terminal. Fig. 3 shows example
   representative acts or steps involved in a method according to a first aspect of the
   technology disclosed herein. Act 3-1 comprises the wireless terminal 30 receiving,
   through its transceiver 34, a message from the radio access network that indicates that
   measurements are to be performed by the wireless terminal on downlink signals
   transmitted by one or more nodes of the radio access network or by the radio access
   network on uplink signals transmitted by the wireless terminal. By "downlink signals
   transmitted by one or more nodes of the radio access network" specifically includes but
   is not limited to downlink signals transmitted by the base station, e.g. the eNodeB.
[00901 The method further comprises, as a result of or after receiving the message, the
   act (act 3-2)of changing an operation mode of the wireless terminal 30, i.e., changing
   operation of the wireless terminal from a discontinuous mode to a modified mode to
   facilitate performance of the measurements.
[00911    Fig. 4 illustrates a preferred version of the method of Fig. 3 which further
   includes as act 3-3 the wireless terminal 30 reverting back from the modified mode to

                                             21
   the discontinuous mode upon completion of the performance of the measurements. In
   an example embodiment the reverting act 3-3 can be accomplished by radio resource
   control (RRC) unit 42 upon receipt of an indication from measurement unit 44 that the
   measurements of the measurement period have been completed. Fig. 4 also shows that
   act 3-3 can be followed by another execution of act 3-1, and that acts of Fig. 4 can be
   executed essentially in looped or repetitive manner as needed.
[00921 In several example embodiments described herein the message received from the
   radio access network as act 2-1 is a measurement request message (MRM) which is
   configured to direct wireless terminal 30 to perform measurements relative to signals
   received by the wireless terminal from one or more cells of the radio access network
   (see Fig. 2). In other embodiments, such as those depicted by Fig. 13 and Fig. 14, the
   message received as act 2-1 indicates that the radio access network will perform the
   measurements.
[00931 As previously mentioned, a "discontinuous mode" comprises or encompasses at
   least one of non-reception periods between reception periods and non-transmission
   periods between transmission periods. For example, a discontinuous mode comprising
   non-reception periods between reception periods is also known as a discontinuous
   reception (DRX); a discontinuous mode comprising non-transmission periods between
   transmission periods is also known as a discontinuous transmission (DTX).
[00941 Changing from a discontinuous mode to a modified mode" can comprise several
   scenarios. A first generic scenario is illustrated in Fig. 5, which generally shows the
   mode of the wireless terminal changing from a discontinuous mode to a modified
   mode, with the modified mode comprising either a continuous mode of a modified
   discontinuous mode. More specific examples of the generic scenario of Fig. 5 are
   provided in Fig. 5A through Fig. 5C.
[00951 Fig. 5A illustrates a situation in which the discontinuous mode is the
   discontinuous reception (DRX) mode, and wherein upon receipt of the message of act
   2-1 from the radio access network the wireless terminal changes operation to either a
   continuous reception mode or to a modified discontinuous reception (DRX') mode. In
   the Fig. 5A situation receipt of the message (MRM) does not alter the transmission
   operation mode of the wireless terminal.
[00961   Fig. 5B illustrates a situation in which the discontinuous mode is the
   discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode, and wherein upon receipt of the message of

                                              22
   act 2-1 the wireless terminal changes operation to either a continuous transmission
   mode or to a modified discontinuous transmission (DTX') mode. In the Fig. 5B
   situation receipt of the message of act 2-1 does not alter the reception operation mode
   of the wireless terminal.
[00971 Fig. 5C illustrates a situation in which the discontinuous mode includes both the
   discontinuous reception (DRX) mode and the discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode.
   Upon receipt of the message of act 2-1 the wireless terminal changes operation of either
   to a continuous mode (which includes both continuous reception and continuous
   transmission) or to a modified mode (which includes both modified discontinuous
   reception (DRX') and modified discontinuous transmission (DTX').
[00981 Thus, as used herein, the expression "changing from a discontinuous mode ... to a
   modified mode" comprises one or more of: (1) changing mode of the wireless terminal
   (e.g., changing from a discontinuous mode [such as discontinuous reception (DRX) or
   discontinuous transmission (DTX)] to a continuous transmission mode); (2) changing
   from the discontinuous mode (a first discontinuous mode) to a modified discontinuous
   mode (a second discontinuous mode).
[00991 The changing from the (first) discontinuous mode to a modified (second)
   discontinuous mode can involve changing a parameter or value associated with the
   discontinuous mode, e.g., changing (e.g., shortening or diminishing) a parameter or
   value such as a discontinuous reception (DRX) cycle value or a discontinuous
   transmission (DTX) level value.
[01001      In view of the ability of the wireless terminal 30 to revert back to the
   discontinuous mode as indicated by act 3-3, the arrows of Fig. 5 and Fig. 5A - Fig. 5C
   are shown to be double headed. It will also be understood that the broken line
   referenced as "mode change" in any of Fig. 5 and Fig. 5A - Fig. 5C can encompass
   either a mode change prompted by receipt of the message of act 2-1 or a reverting mode
   change which is permitted upon completion of the measurements, e.g., upon end of the
   measurement period.
[01011      Fig. 6 shows an example embodiment of wireless terminal 30 wherein radio
   resource control (RRC) unit 42 comprises mode controller 60. The mode controller 60
   includes mode status changer 62 which implements mode changes, such as one or more
   of the mode changes shown in Fig. 5 or Fig. 5A - Fig. 5C, and keeps track of the
   current mode of operation of wireless terminal 30.

                                               23
[01021       As mentioned above, the mode change, i.e., "changing from a discontinuous
    mode ... to a modified mode" can comprise changing from the discontinuous mode (a
    first discontinuous mode) to a modified discontinuous mode (a second discontinuous
    mode). An example way to implement a change from a first discontinuous mode to a
    second discontinuous mode includes changing a parameter or value associated with the
    discontinuous mode. For example, a parameter having a first value in the
    discontinuous mode can be changed to a second value in the modified discontinuous
    mode. To this end, the mode controller 60 of wireless terminal 30 of Fig. 6 is shown as
    comprising a register or memory location for storing a discontinuous mode parameter
    value (IsT parameter value register 64) and register or memory location for storing a
    modified mode parameter value ( 2 "dparameter value register 66).
[01031       From the foregoing it is understood that as a result of receiving the message of
    act 2-1, in an example embodiment the operation of the wireless terminal can be
    changed from a first discontinuous mode (characterized by a first discontinuous mode
    parameter value [which can be stored in      1 ST parameter value register 64]) to a second
    discontinuous mode (characterized by a second discontinuous mode value [which can
    be stored in 2 "dparameter value register 66]). The second discontinuous mode value is
    shorter (e.g., of less magnitude) than the first discontinuous mode parameter value.
[01041       As one example of the foregoing, in example implementations in which the
    discontinuous mode is a discontinuous reception (DRX) mode, the first discontinuous
    mode parameter value and the second discontinuous mode parameter value are
    differing discontinuous reception (DRX) cycle lengths. The second discontinuous
    mode parameter value, e.g. the DRX cycle length of the modified (second)
    discontinuous mode, has a smaller magnitude than the first discontinuous mode
    parameter value, e.g., the DRX cycle length of the first discontinuous mode.
[01051       As another example of the foregoing, in example implementations in which the
    discontinuous mode is a discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode, the first
    discontinuous mode parameter value and the second discontinuous mode parameter
    value are differing discontinuous transmission (DTX) levels. The second discontinuous
    mode parameter value, e.g. the DTX level of the modified (second) discontinuous
    mode, has a smaller magnitude than the first discontinuous mode parameter value, e.g.,
    the DTX level of the first discontinuous mode.
[01061       Fig. 7 and Fig. 8 illustrate an example embodiment of wireless terminal 30
    wherein the radio resource control (RRC) unit 42 is configured to change from the

                                              24
   discontinuous mode in accordance with a mode change timing factor (MCTF) which
   influences when a mode change occurs from the discontinuous mode to the modified
   mode. Fig. 8 superimposes a time vector on the illustration of the mode change from
   the discontinuous mode to the modified mode, and shows a relative time positioning of
   receipt of the message of act 2-1 and the subsequent mode change. Whereas in the
   previous embodiments the mode change occurs as soon as practicable after receipt of
   the message of act 2-1, in the Fig. 7 and Fig. 8 embodiment the mode change timing
   factor (MCTF) essentially serves to delay the mode change past the point of practicable
   implementation. In some cases the mode change timing factor (MCTF) can be an
   offset value (e.g., either a time duration or frame) which is required to occur after
   receipt of the message of act 2-1 before the mode change is to be implemented. In
   other cases, rather than being a relative offset value, the mode change timing factor
   (MCTF) can be an indication of a particular (e.g., absolute) frame number of point in
   time at which the mode change is to occur (the mode change timing factor (MCTF), in
   such cases pointing to a mode change event which is to occur after receipt of the
   message of act 2-1.
[01071      Fig. 7 serves to illustrate two separate implementations, including a first
   implementation wherein the mode change timing factor (MCTF) is pre-configured at
   the wireless terminal prior to reception of the message of act 2-1. To this end Fig. 7
   shows radio resource control (RRC) unit 42 and its mode controller 60 as comprising
   mode change timing factor (MCTF) register or memory location 68 wherein the pre
   configured mode change timing factor (MCTF) can be stored. As mentioned, the pre
   configuring can occur at any point prior to receipt of the message of act 2-1, e.g., at
   beginning of a session, through pre-session periodic update or administrative messages
   from the network, or upon initiation or power up of the wireless terminal 30.
[01081      Fig. 7 also shows another example implementation wherein a value for the
   mode change timing factor (MCTF) is included in the message of act 2-1. This Fig. 7
   alternate implementation shows the node radio resource control (RRC) unit 52 of
   network node 28 as including a message formatter 70. The message formatter 70 of
   Fig. 7 is configured to include the mode change timing factor (MCTF) in the message
   of act 2-1. In an example implementation, the message of act 2-1 can take the form of
   (or be included in) any suitable RRC signaling message. The mode change timing
   factor (MCTF) can be inserted in any unallocated field or any newly designated field of
   the measurement request message (MRM), such as a measurement configuration
   information element, for example.

                                              25
[01091     Fig. 9 and Fig. 10 illustrate an example embodiment of wireless terminal 30
   wherein the radio resource control (RRC) unit 42 is configured, upon completion of the
   performance of the measurements, to revert back to the discontinuous mode from the
   modified mode in accordance with a post-measurement mode revert timing factor
   (MRTF) which influences timing of a reversion from the modified mode to the
   discontinuous mode. Fig. 10 superimposes a time vector on the illustration of the mode
   change from the discontinuous mode to the modified mode, and shows a relative time
   positioning of completion of the performance of the measurements and the subsequent
   mode reversion back to the discontinuous mode. Whereas in the previous embodiments
   the mode reversion occurs as soon as practicable upon completion of the performance
   of the measurements, in the Fig. 9 and Fig. 10 embodiment the mode revert timing
   factor (MRTF) essentially serves to delay the mode reversion past the point of
   practicable implementation. In some cases the mode revert timing factor (MRTF) can
   be an offset value (e.g., either a time duration or frame) which is required to occur after
   completion of the performance of the measurements before the mode reversion is to be
   implemented. In other cases, rather than being a relative offset value, the mode revert
   timing factor (MRTF) can be an indication of a particular (e.g., absolute) frame number
   of point in time at which the mode reversion is to occur (the mode revert timing factor
   (MRTF) in such cases pointing to a mode reversion event which is to occur after
   completion of the performance of the measurements.
[01101     Fig. 9 actually serves to illustrate two separate implementations, including a
   first implementation wherein the mode revert timing factor (MRTF) is pre-configured
   at the wireless terminal, e.g., pre-configured prior to reception of the message of act 2
    1. To this end Fig. 9 shows radio resource control (RRC) unit 42 and its mode
   controller 60 as comprising mode revert timing factor (MRTF) register or memory
   location 72 wherein the pre-configured mode change timing factor (MCTF) can be
   stored. As mentioned, the pre-configuring can occur at any point prior to receipt of the
   message of act 2-1, e.g., at beginning of a session, through pre-session periodic update
   or administrative messages from the network, or upon initiation or power up of the
   wireless terminal 30.
[01111     Fig. 9 also shows another example implementation wherein a value for the
   mode revert timing factor (MRTF) is included in the message of act 2-1. This Fig. 9
   alternate implementation shows the node radio resource control (RRC) unit 52 of
   network node 28 as including the previously mentioned message formatter 70. The
   message formatter 70 of Fig. 9 is configured to include the mode revert timing factor
   (MRTF) in the message of act 2-1. In an example implementation, the message can

                                              26
   take the form of a (or be included in) any suitable RRC signaling message. The mode
   revert timing factor (MRTF) can be inserted in any unallocated field or any newly
   designated field of the measurement request message (MRM), such as a measurement
   configuration information element, for example.
[01121      Fig. 7 and Fig. 9 thus illustrate embodiments of network nodes wherein radio
   resource control (RRC) unit 52 is configured to prepare a message for transmission to
   wireless terminal 30, and to include therein a parameter which specifies or influences
   timing of a mode change. The mode change is between a discontinuous mode and a
   modified mode, e.g., in the case of Fig. 7 a mode change from a discontinuous mode to
   a modified mode and in the case of Fig. 9 a mode change from a modified mode to the
   discontinuous mode. In particular, the node radio resource control (RRC) unit 52
   comprises message formatter 70 which is configured to include one or both of the mode
   change timing factor (MCTF) and the mode revert timing factor (MRTF) in the
   message of act 2-1. As mentioned previously, the discontinuous mode is configured to
   comprise at least one of non-reception periods between reception periods and non
   transmission periods between transmission periods. Relative to the discontinuous mode
   the modified mode is configured to shortened or eliminated at least one of following:
   (i) the non-reception periods, and (ii) the non-transmission periods. The transceiver is
   configured to transmit the message of act 2-Ito the wireless terminal over the radio
   interface.
[01131      In an example embodiment the radio resource control (RRC) unit is configured
   to change from the discontinuous mode to the modified mode by disabling one or both
   of discontinuous reception (DRX) and discontinuous transmission (DTX).
[01141      In an example embodiment the measurement unit 44 of the wireless terminal 30
   is configured to perform, e.g., measurements for determining position of the wireless
   terminal. There are diverse ways in which such measurements can be performed and
   evaluated. In one example implementation the message of act 2-1 is a measurement
   request message which is configured to direct the measurement unit 44 to measure time
   difference of arrival of the signals received by the wireless terminal from plural cells of
   the radio access network. In another example implementation the measurement request
   message is configured to direct the measurement unit 44 to measure reference signal
   time difference (RSTD) of signals received by the wireless terminal from plural cells of
   the radio access network.

                                              27
[01151       It has been mentioned above that the message of act 2-1 can, in example
    embodiments, indicate that measurements are to be performed to determine position of
    the wireless terminal. The technology disclosed herein encompasses essentially any
    and all practicable ways of making such measurements and the various differing types
    of signals that facilitate the determination of position of the wireless terminal. Some
    non-limiting examples of positioning methods are mentioned below for sake of
    illustration.
[01161       One technique for determination of position of a wireless terminal comprises a
    determination of round trip time (RTT). The round trip time (RTT) is the time
    difference between the beginning of signal transmission in the downlink and estimated
    first path of the corresponding signal received in the uplink. The round trip time is
    measured at the base station. According to an example embodiment described
    subsequently with reference to Fig. 13 and Fig. 14, if the wireless terminal (UE) is in
    the discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode when the base station performs a
    determination of round trip time (RTT), the wireless terminal (UE) should disregard the
    discontinuous transmission (DTX) and instead should continuously transmit on the
    uplink in response to any received downlink signal from the base station, thereby
    speeding up the round trip time (RTT) measurement. It is a user specific measurement;
    this means it is measured separately for each UE in a cell. In the UTRAN system RTT
    is specified as a UTRAN measurement.
[01171       Another technique for determination of position of a wireless terminal
    comprises a determination of wireless terminal (UE) receive-transmit time difference
    (e.g., UE Rx-Tx time difference). In UTRAN FDD (WCDMA) there are two UE Rx
    Tx time difference measurements: Type 1 and Type 2, which are primarily defined for
    call set up and positioning respectively. See, e.g., 3GPP TS 25.215, "Physical layer;
    Measurements (FDD". Of these, the first one (Type 1) is mandatory, but has worse
    accuracy (1.5 chip accuracy) than the second one (1 chip accuracy), which is an
    optional measurement.
[01181       Another technique for determination of position of a wireless terminal
    comprises a determination of the observed time difference of arrival (OTDOA) of
    signals from three cells. In WCDMA the SFN-SFN type 2 measurements (See, e.g.,
    3GPP TS 25.215, "Physical layer; Measurements (FDD)", which is measured by the
    UE on CPICH signals received from two different cells, is used for determining UE
    positioning using this method. In E-UTRAN a similar measurement is done on a
    known pilot or reference signals. The reference signals can be normal cell specific

                                            28
   reference signals or specific reference signals meant for positioning. In general such a
   measurement can be called as OTDOA. More specifically we call this measurement as
   reference signal time difference (RSTD).
[01191     Another technique for determination of position of a wireless terminal
   comprises normal neighbor cell measurements such as the received signal strength,
   received signal quality, and path loss. These types measurements can be used the
   pattern matching method, which is more commonly known as the fingerprinting
   method. The well known examples of such measurements are CPICH RSCP and
   CPICH Ec/No in UTRAN FDD [see, e.g., 3GPP TS 25.215, "Physical layer;
   Measurements (FDD"], P-CCPCH RSCP in UTRAN TDD [see, e.g., 3GPP TS 25.225,
   "Physical layer; Measurements (TDD)"] and RSRP and RSRQ in E-UTRAN [see, e.g.,
    3GPP TS 36.214, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E UTRA); Physical
    layer measurements"]. However, signal strength type measurements such as path loss,
   CPICH RSCP, P-CCPCH RSCP and RSRP are most relevant for pattern matching
   positioning methods.
[01201     Thus, the technology disclosed herein encompasses definition of a set of rules
   which govern behavior of the wireless terminal (UE) in DRX/DTX modes when it is
   requested by the network to perform one or more of the positioning measurements e.g.
   observed time difference of arrival of signals from two cells, reference signal time
   difference (RSTD), SFN-SFN type 2 measurement in UTRAN or any other
   measurement used for positioning. The technology disclosed herein encompasses, as
   either separate or combinable features, e.g., methods and apparatus for performing
   positioning measurements in discontinuous reception (DRX) as well as methods and
   apparatus for performing positioning measurements in discontinuous transmission
   (DTX).
[01211     In some embodiments encompassed hereby the network requests the wireless
   terminal (UE) to perform positioning measurements such as time difference of arrival
   of signals from two cells for two or more set of cells. These sets of cells should
   preferably be located in different base station sites. It is assumed that the wireless
   terminal (UE) is in a discontinuous mode (e.g., a DRX state) when such a request is
   received from the network. There are several facets of this part of the technology
   disclosed herein:
[01221     According to the first facet, upon receiving a request for measurement, the UE
   disregards the DRX cycle and goes into the continuous reception mode. The UE stays

                                             29
   in the continuous reception mode until it has performed all the requested positioning
   measurements. After the completion of all the required measurements the wireless
   terminal (UE) returns or reverts to the discontinuous reception (DRX) state. Such a
   rule can be pre-defined in the standard so that the network is aware of the wireless
   terminal (UE) behavior in the discontinuous reception (DRX) mode.
[01231      According to a second facet, upon receiving the request for measurement the
   wireless terminal (UE) does not fully disregard the DRX cycle. Rather, the wireless
   terminal (UE) shortens its DRX cycle. The wireless terminal (UE) operates using
   shorter DRX cycle until it has performed all the requested positioning measurements.
   After the completion of all the required measurements the UE returns or reverts to the
   initial DRX, which was used prior to the reception of the measurement requests. Such a
   rule can also be pre-defined in the standard to make the network aware of the UE
   behavior in the DRX mode. The shorter DRX cycle can be pre-configured in the
   wireless terminal (UE) initially. Alternatively, it can also be a pre-defined DRX cycle
   such as the shortest possible DRX cycle or certain specific DRX cycle, e.g. 40 ms of
   periodicity. Alternatively the shorter DRX can be signaled in the same measurement
   control message, which contains request for performing the positioning measurements.
   In prior art systems (in E-UTRAN) the wireless terminal (UE) can be pre-configured
   with two DRX cycles e.g. one short and one long. This second facet is useful in case
   the wireless terminal (UE) is capable of meeting the required measurement accuracy
   with a shorter DRX cycle. In this way wireless terminal (UE) can still save its battery
   power to some extent.
[01241      As an example of the foregoing, assume the wireless terminal (UE) is using
   DRX cycle = 1.28 seconds. Upon receipt of the positioning measurement request from
   the network node the wireless terminal (UE) starts operating using the DRX cycle     =  40
   ms until it has completed all the measurements. After completion of the measurement,
   the UE returns to DRX cycle = 1.28 seconds.
[01251      According to a third facet the time instance or any relative time offset when the
   UE goes into continuous mode or when it shortens its DRX cycle to perform
   positioning measurements can also be pre-defined. See the mode change timing factor
   (MCTF) mentioned above. Alternatively such parameter can be signaled to the
   wireless terminal (UE) along with the measurement request or it can be pre-configured
   initially at the wireless terminal (UE), e.g. at the start of the session.

                                             30
[01261      Similarly according to a fourth facet the time instance or any relative time offset
   when the UE shall return or revert to the initial DRX cycle after perform positioning
   measurements can also be pre-defined. See the mode revert timing factor (MRTF)
   mentioned above. Alternatively it can also be signaled to the wireless terminal (UE) as
   a parameter along with the measurement request or it can be pre-configured with
   initially at the wireless terminal (UE) e.g. at the start of the session.
[01271      Overall the above facets correspond to the fact that the positioning
   measurements are of higher priority than the discontinuous mode, e.g., than the DRX.
   Thus according to a fifth facet, it can simply be specified by standard or otherwise that
   the positioning measurements are of higher priority than the DRX or that the wireless
   terminal (UE) is to override the DRX operation or ignore the DRX operation or shorten
   the DRX when performing the positioning measurements (e.g., when performing time
   difference of arrivals of signals from two cells). In this way the details of the methods
   in DRX shall be left for wireless terminal (UE) implementation without explicit
   standardization. Yet according to another embodiment it can also be specified that
   wireless terminal (UE) when in a discontinuous mode and requested to perform
   positioning measurements shall fulfill the measurement requirements corresponding to
   non-DRX case (continuous reception case) or those corresponding to shorter DRX.
   This means the measurement period and other requirements are the same as for the non
   DRX case or for the short DRX case.
[01281      As mentioned above, the wireless terminal (UE) can either disable the
   discontinuous mode (e.g., DRX) or it can shorten the DRX cycle upon the reception of
   the positioning measurement request. Some example, non-limiting, scenarios of the
   technology disclosed herein are illustrated in Fig. 11 and Fig. 12
[01291      The scenario of Fig. 11 encompasses an example case wherein the DRX cycle is
   completely disabled by the UE (e.g., the first facet) upon receiving the request for
   performing the positioning measurement: e.g., RSTD. As shown in Fig. 11 initially the
   wireless terminal (UE) is in a DRX state (act 11-1). The wireless terminal (UE) then
   receives a RSTD measurement request (act 11-2) from the network. The request
   message from the network may also include the time instances (e.g. sub-frame or time
   offset, such as the mode change timing factor (MCTF) mentioned above) when the
   wireless terminal (UE) is to disable its DRX and when to enable the DRX after
   performing the measurement. Otherwise the wireless terminal (UE) determines the
   time instances or time offsets from the pre-defined values or rules. The wireless
   terminal (UE) then disables the DRX cycle (act 11-3) and starts performing RSTD

                                             31
   measurement (act 11-4) from multiple set of paired cells e.g. N (N>1) set; serving cell
   and N neighbor cells. The wireless terminal (UE) is capable of performing all the
   requested RSTD measurements within the specified duration, e.g., according to the
   performance requirements. The duration over which the wireless terminal (UE)
   remains in non DRX (continuous reception mode) is therefore on the order of the
   RSTD measurement period for non DRX case. Therefore, when the measurement timer
   expires (11-5) the wireless terminal (UE) enables the DRX mode (act 11-6), e.g.,
   reverts back to the discontinuous mode.
[01301     Fig. 12 illustrates an example, non-limiting specific scenario wherein the DRX
   cycle is shortened by the wireless terminal (UE) upon receiving the request for
   performing the positioning measurement, e.g., RSTD. As shown in Fig. 15, initially the
   wireless terminal (UE) is in a DRX state (act 12-1). The wireless terminal (UE)
   receives the RSTD measurement request (act 12-2) from the network. The request
   message from the network may also include the time instances (e.g. sub-frame or time
   offset) when the wireless terminal (UE) is to shorten its DRX cycle and when to return
   to the initial DRX state after performing the measurement. Otherwise the wireless
   terminal (UE) determines the time instances or time offsets from the pre-defined values
   or rules. The wireless terminal (UE) then shortens its DRX cycle (act 12-3) and starts
   performing RSTD measurement (act 12-4) from multiple set of paired cells e.g. N
   (N>1) set; serving cell and N neighbor cells. The duration over which the wireless
   terminal (UE) stays in the shorter DRX cycle is on the order of the RSTD measurement
   period corresponding to the shorter DRX cycle. Therefore when measurement timer
   expires (act 12-5) the wireless terminal (UE) returns to the initial DRX state (act 12-6).
[01311     Although the examples of Fig. 11 and Fig. 12 feature RSTD, a person skilled in
   the art can realize that the Fig. 11 and Fig. 12 examples can easily be applied to other
   positioning measurements such as UTRAN SFN-SFN type 2, observed time difference
   of arrival (OTDOA) of signals from two cells or any other positioning measurement
   including such as, path loss, signal strength and signal quality.
[01321     The discontinuous transmission (DTX) can occur due to any type of idle gaps.
   The gaps are generally used for performing measurements on inter-frequency carriers
   and/or inter-RAT carriers (i.e. on technologies other than the one corresponding to the
   serving carrier). In UTRAN and E-UTRAN the periodical compressed mode patterns
   and idle gaps respectively are used for performing these types of measurements.

                                            32
[01331     The DTX is also used in UTRAN for other purposes such as to reduce
   transmission power, received interference, noise rise etc. For instance, in WCDMA,
   where traditionally continuous power control and hence a continuous DPCCH is used,
   the discontinuous uplink power control feature (i.e. by configuring a discontinuous
   dedicated physical control channel (DPCCH)), which is configurable by the network,
   allows the network to reduce uplink noise rise and UE transmission power. The exact
   DTX pattern e.g. periodicity and duration of the DTX/idle occasion/gap are set by the
   network according to the desired scenario.
[01341     According to a sixth facet of the technology disclosed herein the request for the
   positioning measurement (e.g. RSTD or SFN-SFN type 2 etc), the wireless terminal
   (UE) disables the DTX and goes into continuous transmission mode. After performing
   the positioning measurement the wireless terminal (UE) returns to the DTX mode. As
   in case of DRX the time instances or time offsets at which the DTX is disabled and
   enabled can be signaled by the network or can be derived from the pre-defined rule or
   can be pre-defined values.
[01351     According to a seventh facet of the technology disclosed herein upon receiving
   the request for the positioning measurement (e.g. RSTD or SFN-SFN type 2 etc), the
   wireless terminal (UE) does not completely disable the DTX, but rather reduces the
   DTX cycle or the level of the DTX, e.g. the UE may go from DTX periodicity of 640
   ms to 80 ms. The DTX cycle may also be pre-defined that upon the request. The
   wireless terminal (UE) goes to the shortest possible DTX level or alternatively the
   wireless terminal (UE) operates according to the pre-configured or pre-defined
   DTX/idle gap. After performing the positioning measurement the wireless terminal
   (UE) returns to the normal or to the initial DTX mode. As in case of DRX, the time
   instances or time offsets at which the wireless terminal (UE) transmits with shorter
   DTX and resumes with normal DRX can be signaled by the network or can be derived
   from the pre-defined rule or can be pre-defined values.
[01361     A longer DTX cycle or idle gaps (such as compressed mode gaps or
   measurement gaps) may particularly lead to longer measurement periods and response
   times of the positioning measurements done at the base station (e.g. round trip time or
   one way propagation delay). This is because due to the DTX or idle gaps the radio
   network node will sparsely receive the wireless terminal (UE) transmitted signals. This
   problem is solved, e.g., by the eighth facet of the technology disclosed herein.

                                             33
[01371     Fig. 13 shows a representative network node 28 and a representative wireless
   terminal 30 suitable for implementation the eighth facet of the technology disclosed
   herein wherein the network node 28 directs the wireless terminal 30 to discontinue the
   discontinuous transmission (DTX) mode while the network node makes position
   measurements for the wireless terminal. For this eighth facet the network node 28 of
   Fig. 13 includes node measurement unit 80.
[01381     According to this eighth facet (illustrated in Fig. 13 and Fig. 14) the wireless
   terminal (UE) disables the DTX cycle to facilitate the uplink positioning measurement,
   e.g. round trip time or one way propagation delay etc. In this way the radio network
   node such as a base station, Node B or eNode B shall frequently receive the wireless
   terminal (UE)-transmitted signal and will be able to promptly perform the positioning
   related measurement and determined the UE position in a shorter duration. Fig. 14
   shows example, non-limiting acts or steps for the eighth facet, and particularly shows
   as act 14-1 the network node signaling the wireless terminal (UE) a message or a
   command indicating the UE to disable the DTX over specified (e.g., certain) time
   period (TI). As act 14-2 the wireless terminal (UE) discontinues the discontinuous
   transmission (DTX) mode. During the certain or specified time period TI the network
   node performs the positioning measurements (act 14-3). After the time period TI, the
   UE resumes the DTX operation (act 14-4).
[01391     In the eighth facet illustrated by Fig. 13 and Fig. 14 the time period TI can be
   either specified by the network node in a message to the wireless terminal or a pre
   defined value, e.g., the measurement period of the measurement quantity in the non
   DTX case. In that case the network signaled message shall simply indicate to the
   wireless terminal (UE) that the network shall perform the positioning measurement.
   Therefore UE shall ignore the DTX until a pre-defined time.
[01401     Thus, in the eighth facet the network indicates to the wireless terminal (UE) that
   the network is now performing measurement. So either network indicates UE to
   disregard DTX over certain time. Another way is that network simply sends pre
   defined message or signal to UE. The pre-defined message implies according to pre
   defined rule that UE is to disregard DTX over certain pre-defined time period.
[01411     It has been mentioned several times above that a longer DRX cycle or a longer
   DTX cycle or idle gaps (such as compressed mode gaps or measurement gaps) may
   lead to longer measurement periods and thus delay the determination of the position of
   the wireless terminal (UE). Fig. 15 illustrates a situation in which the wireless terminal

                                            34
   has been operating in a discontinuous mode (either one or both of DRX or DTX)
   having a cycle length of 2.56 second, with four samples of each of four cells. In the
   Fig. 15 discontinuous mode situation the measurement period of reference signal
   received power (RSRP), which is LTE measurement quantity, is approximately 10.28
   seconds. Fig. 15 also shows the shortening of the measurement period that occurs upon
   a mode change to a modified mode such as a non-discontinuous mode, and particularly
   to the example situation of Fig. 16. Accordingly, Fig. 15 shows that, in view of the
   mode change, the measurement period has been reduced from 10.28 seconds to 200
   milliseconds. The significantly shortened measurement period enables a more prompt
   and accurate determination of the position of the wireless terminal (UE).
[01421     The continuous transmission helps speed up measurements but also increases
   interference. Therefore a suitable value of DTX cycle or level of DTX would lead to
   reasonable measurement period of the positioning measurement and acceptable
   response time of the determined position of the wireless terminal (UE). This objective
   is achieved by the ninth facet of the technology disclosed herein. Thus according to
   this ninth facet the wireless terminal (UE) uses shorter DTX cycle/idle gaps to facilitate
   the radio network node performing the positioning measurement over a shorter period
   of time. As in the previous case, the network has to signal the UE when to shorten the
   DTX/idle gaps and over certain duration (T2). Either a shorter DTX cycle can be
   signaled to the UE or alternatively a pre-defined rule may also be specified. For
   instance the pre-define rule could require the UE to operate according to a shorter pre
   configured or pre-defined DTX/idle gap; another possibility is that the wireless
   terminal (UE) uses the shortest possible DTX level. The duration (T2) can also be a
   pre-define value rather than a signaled value.
[01431     According to a tenth facet of the technology disclosed herein it can simply be
   specified or prescribed (e.g., standardized) that the positioning measurements are of
   higher priority than the DTX/idle gaps/measurement gaps/compressed mode gaps,
   otherwise specified that the UE is to override or ignore or shorten the DTX/idle
   gaps/measurement gaps/compressed mode gaps when the positioning measurements are
   performed either by the wireless terminal (UE) or by the network or both. In this way
   the details of the methods in DRX or idle gaps shall be left for wireless terminal (UE)
   implementation without explicit standardization. Yet according to another embodiment
   it can also be specified that when the wireless terminal (UE) is in DTX and positioning
   measurements are performed either by wireless terminal (UE) or by the radio network
   node the measurement requirements corresponding to non DTX case (continuous
   transmission case) or those corresponding to shorter DTX shall be met. This means the

                                              35
    measurement period and other requirements are the same as for the non DTX case or
    for short DTX case.
[01441      In practice both DTX and DRX modes may be used. For instance when the
    wireless terminal (UE) is configured in DRX, the measurement gaps for performing the
    neighbor cell measurements may also be activated in parallel.
[01451      Hence according to an eleventh facet of the technology disclosed herein the
    wireless terminal (UE) disables both DRX and DTX (or any types of idle gaps) when
    the positioning related measurements (i.e. disables the DRX/DTX over the duration of
    measurements) are carried out either by the wireless terminal (UE) or by the radio
    network node such as a base station or by both wireless terminal (UE) and the radio
    network node.
[01461      According to a twelfth facet of the technology disclosed herein the UE uses
    both shorter DRX and shorter DTX when the positioning related measurements (i.e.
    uses shorter DRX/DTX over the duration of measurements) are carried out either by the
    UE or by the radio network node such as a base station or by both UE and the radio
    network node.
[01471      According to a thirteenth facet of the technology disclosed herein any
    combination of the methods related to the positioning measurements in DRX and DTX
    disclosed herein can be used.
[01481      All the preceding embodiments encompass and/or comprise the rules, methods,
    and procedures pertaining to the measurements related to the terrestrial positioning
    methods (e.g. UE based and network based UTDOA etc) in DRX.
[01491      In case of GNSS or A-GNSS the wireless terminal (UE) is required to fully or
    partially perform measurements on signals received from certain number of satellites,
    e.g. number of visible satellites, identity of satellites, etc. If the wireless terminal (UE)
    is in DRX mode the measurements shall be delayed. This in turn will lead to longer
    response time in the determination of the wireless terminal (UE) position.
[01501      According to the fourteenth facet of the technology disclosed herein all the
    methods described herein can also be used for performing satellite based positioning
    measurements, e.g. A-GPS measurements. This means the wireless terminal (UE) can

                                              36
    either ignore DRX/DTX or can shorten the DRX/DTX when performing GNSS or A
    GNSS or A-GPS related measurements.
[01511      The technology disclosed herein thus encompasses, among other things, the
    following, alternatively or collectively:
[01521      In the discontinuous reception (DRX) state the wireless terminal performs a
    reference signal time difference (RSTD) measurement over the measurement period
    corresponding to the non-discontinuous reception (DRX).
[01531      Regardless of whether the wireless terminal is in the discontinuous reception
    (DRX) mode/state or not, the wireless terminal performs the reference signal time
    difference (RSTD) measurement over the same measurement period.
[01541      If the wireless terminal is configured in the discontinuous reception (DRX)
    mode/state, then upon receiving the reference signal time difference (RSTD)
    measurement from the network, the wireless terminal ignores the discontinuous
    reception (DRX) cycle during the measurement period of the reference signal time
    difference (RSTD) measurement.
[01551      If the wireless terminal is configured in the discontinuous reception (DRX)
    mode/state, then upon receiving the reference signal time difference (RSTD)
    measurement request from the network the wireless terminal goes into a non-DRX state
    (or shortens its DRX cycle) during the measurement period of the reference signal time
    difference (RSTD).
[01561      According to the fifteenth facet of the technology disclosed herein the wireless
    terminal (UE) disregards DRX and/or DTX when there is critical situation such as
    emergency situation or public warning. The emergency or public warning may be
    caused due to one or several reasons such as: hurricane, typhoon, tornado, flood, acts of
    terrorism, fire etc. In one embodiment when UE is operating under DRX and/or DTX,
    then upon receiving any emergency related information from the network node, the UE
    disregards the DRX and/or DTX over certain time period (Te). The period Te can be a
    pre-defined period or it can be a value signaled by the network. The emergency
    information including Te can be sent to the UE via broadcast channel or via UE
    specific channel or via any suitable channel. The UE can either be explicitly indicated
    by the network via a signaling message to disregard the DRX and/or DTX states.
    Alternatively the disabling of the DRX and/or DTX states under emergency can also be

                                              37
   based on a pre-defined rule. For instance a pre-defined rule can be specified according
   to which when UE initiates an emergency call or sends any request related to warning
   or emergency, then the UE disables the DRX and/or DTX over a pre-defined time or
   until the completion of the emergency call. After the public warning or emergency is
   over the UE reverts to the normal DRX and /or DTX operation. The disabling of DRX
   and/or DTX in emergency situation enables the UE and network to establish faster
   communication and also allows the UE and/or network node to perform faster
   measurements required for various reasons e.g. for determination of UE position, for
   better mobility performance etc.
[01571      According to sixteenth facet of the technology disclosed herein when UE is
   operating in DRX and/or DTX and if there is critical situation such as emergency or
   public warning, the UE does not completely disable the DRX and/or DTX states rather
   it shortens its DRX and/or DTX cycles over a time period (Ts); Ts can be a pre-defined
   value or a value signaled by the network node to the UE. The shorter values of
   DRX/DTX cycles can be pre-defined for use during the emergency situation or they
   can be signaled to the UE in emergency message via broadcast channel or via UE
   specific channel or via any suitable channel. After public warning or emergency is
   over the UE reverts to the normal DRX and /or DTX operation. The shortening of
   DRX and/or DTX in emergency situation has several advantages. It enables the UE
   and network to establish faster communication and allows the UE and/or network node
   to perform relatively faster measurements required for various reasons e.g. for
   determination of UE position, for better UE mobility performance etc. Another
   advantage is that UE can still save its battery power which is important in such
   emergency situation.
[01581      Fig. 17 and Fig. 18 illustrate the fifteenth and sixteenth facets of the technology
   disclosed herein. Fig. 17 shows example representative acts or steps involved in a
   method according to the fifteenth and sixteenth facets of the technology disclosed
   herein. Act 17-1 comprises recognizing that an emergency situation exists (the
   recognition being in accordance with any of the foregoing examples). The methods
   further comprise, as a result of or after the recognition, the act (act 17-2) of changing an
   operation mode of the wireless terminal 30, i.e., changing operation of the wireless
   terminal from a discontinuous mode to a modified mode to facilitate performance of the
   measurements. Fig. 18 illustrates a preferred version of the method of Fig. 17 which
   further includes as act 17-3 the wireless terminal 30 reverting back from the modified
   mode to the discontinuous mode. Such reverting can occur upon any of the example
   criteria described herein, e.g., upon expiration of a predetermine time interval or

                                                 38
        indication/realization that the emergency situation has terminated. In an example
        embodiment the changing operation of act 17-3 and/or the reverting act 17-3 can be
        accomplished by radio resource control (RRC) unit 42. Aspects of the fifteenth and
        sixteenth facets of the technology, including but not limited to the meaning of
        discontinuous mode and modified mode and applicability to either or discontinuous
        reception (DRX) and discontinuous transmission (DTX), are understood with reference
        to other embodiments and examples described herein.
    [01591       The technology disclosed herein encompasses for affords many advantages.
        Example, non-limiting advantages include the following:
* The wireless terminal (UE) in DRX state can perform and report the measurements to be
    used for determining its positioning in a shorter duration. This, in turn, reduces the
    response time to determine the wireless terminal (UE) position when the wireless terminal
    (UE) is in DRX state.
* By the virtue of the embodiment which allows the use of shorter DRX/DTX cycle, the
    measurement period and response times are reasonably reduced.
* Reasonable interference and noise rise levels can be maintained by using shorter and
    appropriate DTX/gaps.
* Reasonable UE power saving can be achieved by using shorter and appropriate DRX cycle.
* The requirements of the emergence calls, which require fast determination of the UE
    position, can be met when the wireless terminal (UE) is in DRX.
    [01601      Embodiment 1- Embodiment 35 are example embodiments relating to the
        invention as described herein:
        Embodiment 1. A method of operating a wireless terminal (30) in communication
with a radio access network (20) over a radio interface (32), the wireless terminal (30) being of
a type capable of operating in a discontinuous mode comprising at least one of non-reception
periods between reception periods and non-transmission periods between transmission periods,
the method comprising:
        receiving a message from the radio access network (20) that measurements are to be
performed by the wireless terminal (30) on downlink signals transmitted by one or more node/s

                                                 39
of the radio access network (20) or be performed by one or more node/s of the radio access
network (20) on uplink signals transmitted by the wireless terminal (30);
         the method characterized by:
         as a result of receiving the message, and when the wireless terminal (30) is in a
discontinuous mode, changing the wireless terminal (30) from the discontinuous mode to a
modified mode to facilitate performance of the measurements, and wherein relative to the
discontinuous mode at least one of following are shortened or eliminated in the modified
mode: (i) the non-reception periods, and (ii) the non-transmission periods.
         Embodiment 2. The method of embodiment 1, wherein the discontinuous mode
comprises at least one of a discontinuous reception (DRX) mode and a discontinuous
transmission (DTX) mode.
         Embodiment 3. The method of embodiment 1, wherein the modified mode is a
continuous mode.
         Embodiment 4. The method of embodiment 1, wherein the modified mode comprises a
modified discontinuous mode having a modified discontinuous mode parameter, the modified
discontinuous mode parameter being indicative of a shorter cycle between at least one of (i)
ends of two successive non-reception periods and (ii) ends of two successive non-transmission
periods than that of a corresponding discontinuous mode parameter.
         Embodiment 5. The method of embodiment 1, further comprising upon completion of
the performance of the measurements, reverting back to the first discontinuous mode.
         Embodiment 6. The method of embodiment 1, 2 or 3 wherein the measurements are for
determining position of the wireless terminal (30).
         Embodiment 7. The method of embodiment 1, or 6 wherein the measurements comprise
measuring the time difference of arrival of reference signals from different cells.
         Embodiment 8. The method of embodiment 1, or 6 wherein the message is a
measurement request message, and wherein the measurement request message is configured to
direct the wireless terminal (30) to perform measurements on signals received by the wireless
terminal (30) from one or more cells of the radio access network (20).

                                                  40
         Embodiment 9. The method of claim 1, or 6 further comprising changing from the
discontinuous mode in accordance with a mode change timing factor.
         Embodiment 10. The method of embodiment 9, further comprising, upon completion of
the performance of the measurements, reverting back to the discontinuous mode from the
modified mode after expiration of a post-measurement mode revert timing factor.
         Embodiment 11. The method of embodiment 1, wherein changing from the
discontinuous mode to the modified mode comprises disabling one or both of discontinuous
reception (DRX) and discontinuous transmission (DTX).
         Embodiment 12. The method of embodiment 1, or 6 further comprising performing
the measurements by the radio access network (20) while the wireless terminal (30) remains in
the modified mode for a specific time period.
         Embodiment 13. A method of operating a wireless terminal (30) in communication
with a radio access network (20) over a radio interface (32), the wireless terminal (30) having
been in a discontinuous mode comprising at least one of non-reception periods between
reception periods and non-transmission periods between transmission periods, the method
comprising:
         receiving a message from the radio access network (20) that measurements are to be
performed by the wireless terminal (30) or by the radio access network (20);
         the method characterized by:
         as a result of receiving the message, ignoring or modifying the discontinuous mode
while the measurements are performed.
         Embodiment 14. The method of embodiment 13, wherein the message is a
measurement request message, and wherein the measurement request message is configured to
direct the wireless terminal (30) to perform measurements on signals received by the wireless
terminal (30) from one or more cells of the radio access network (20).
         Embodiment 15. A wireless terminal (30) configured for communication with a radio
access network (20) over a radio interface (32), the wireless terminal (30) comprising:
         a transceiver (34) configured to receive a message that measurements are to be
performed by the wireless terminal (30) on downlink signals transmitted by one or more node/s
of the radio access network (20) or performed by one or more node/s of the radio access
network (20) on uplink signals transmitted by the wireless terminal (30);

                                                41
        the wireless terminal characterized by:
        a computer-implemented radio resource control (RRC) unit (42) configured, as a result
of receiving the message, to change the wireless terminal (30) from a discontinuous mode to a
modified transceiving mode while the measurements are performed, wherein the discontinuous
mode is configured to comprise at least one of non-reception periods between reception
periods and non-transmission periods between transmission periods, wherein relative to the
discontinuous mode the modified mode is configured to shortened or eliminated at least one of
following: (i) the non-reception periods, and (ii) the non-transmission periods.
        Embodiment 16. The wireless terminal of embodiment 15, wherein the discontinuous
mode comprises at least one of a discontinuous reception (DRX) mode and a discontinuous
transmission (DTX) mode.
        Embodiment 17. The wireless terminal of embodiment 15, wherein the modified mode
is a continuous mode.
        Embodiment 18. The wireless terminal of embodiment 15, wherein the modified mode
comprises a modified discontinuous mode having a modified parameter, the modified
parameter being indicative of a shorter cycle between at least one of (i) ends of two successive
non-reception periods and (ii) ends of two successive non-transmission periods than that of a
corresponding parameter for the discontinuous mode.
        Embodiment 19. The wireless terminal of embodiment 15, wherein the radio resource
control (RRC) unit (42) is configured, upon completion of the performance of the
measurements, to revert back to the first discontinuous mode.
        Embodiment 20. The wireless terminal of embodiment 15, 17 or 19, further comprising
a measurement unit (44) configured to perform the measurements for determining position of
the wireless terminal (30).
        Embodiment 21. The wireless terminal of embodiment 15, wherein the radio resource
control (RRC) unit (42) is configured to change from the discontinuous mode in accordance
with a mode change timing factor.
        Embodiment 22. The wireless terminal of embodiment 21, wherein the radio resource
control (RRC) unit (42) is further configured, upon completion of the performance of the

                                                  42
measurements, to revert back to the discontinuous mode from the modified mode after
expiration of a post-measurement mode revert timing factor.
         Embodiment 23. The wireless terminal of embodiment 15, wherein the radio resource
control (RRC) unit (42) is configured to change from the discontinuous mode to the modified
mode by disabling one or both of discontinuous reception (DRX) and discontinuous
transmission (DTX).
         Embodiment 24. The wireless terminal of embodiment 15, or 19, wherein the message
is a measurement request message, and wherein the transceiver (34) is configured to receive
position determination signals from one or more cells of the radio access network (20), the
measurement request message being configured to direct the wireless terminal (30) to perform
measurements relative to the position determination signals.
         Embodiment 25. A wireless terminal configured to operate in communication with a
radio access network (20) over a radio interface (32), the wireless terminal (30) comprising:
         a transceiver (34) configured to receive a message from the radio access network (20)
indicating that the wireless terminal (30) is to perform measurements on downlink signals in
the radio access network or the radio access network (20) is to perform measurements on
uplink signals from the wireless terminal;
         the wireless terminal characterized by:
         a computer-implemented radio resource control (RRC) unit (42) configured, as a result
of receiving the message, and if operating in a discontinuous mode that comprise at least one
of non-reception periods between reception periods and non-transmission periods between
transmission periods, to ignore or shorten at least one of the non-reception periods and the non
transmission periods while the measurements are performed.
         Embodiment 26. The method of embodiment 25, wherein the message is a
measurement request message, and wherein the measurement request message is configured to
direct the wireless terminal (30) to perform measurements on signals received by the wireless
terminal (30) from one or more cells of the radio access network (20).
         Embodiment 27. A node (28) of a radio access network (RAN) configured for
operation over a radio interface (32) with a wireless terminal (30), the node characterized by:
         a computer-implemented node radio resource control (RRC) unit (52) configured to
prepare a measurement request message for transmission to the wireless terminal (30), the
measurement request message being configured both to direct the wireless terminal (30) to

                                                 43
perform measurements relative to position determination signals transmitted from plural cells
of the radio access network (20) and to provide a parameter which specifies or influences
timing of a mode change, the mode change being between a discontinuous mode and a
modified mode, the discontinuous mode being configured to comprise at least one of non
reception periods between reception periods and non-transmission periods between
transmission periods, and wherein relative to the discontinuous mode the modified mode is
configured to shortened or eliminated at least one of following: (i) the non-reception periods,
and (ii) the non-transmission periods; and
         a transceiver (48) configured to transmit a measurement request message to the wireless
terminal (30) over the radio interface (32).
         Embodiment 28. The node of embodiment 27, wherein the discontinuous mode is for at
least one of a discontinuous reception (DRX) mode and a discontinuous transmission (DTX)
mode.
         Embodiment 29. The node of embodiment 27, wherein the measurements are for
determining position of the wireless terminal (30).
         Embodiment 30. The node of embodiment 27, wherein the parameter comprises a mode
change timing factor which influences when a mode change occurs from the discontinuous
mode to the modified mode.
         Embodiment 31. The node of embodiment 30, wherein the parameter comprises a post
measurement mode revert timing factor which influences timing of a reversion from the
modified mode to the discontinuous mode.
         Embodiment 32. A method of operating a wireless terminal (30) in communication
with a radio access network (20) over a radio interface (32), the wireless terminal (30) being of
a type capable of operating in a discontinuous mode comprising at least one of non-reception
periods between reception periods and non-transmission periods between transmission periods,
the method comprising:
         recognizing that an emergency situation exists;
         the method characterized by:
         as a result of the recognition, and when the wireless terminal is in a discontinuous
mode, changing the wireless terminal (30) from the discontinuous mode to a modified mode to
facilitate performance of the measurements, and wherein relative to the discontinuous mode at

                                                 44
least one of following are shortened or eliminated in the modified mode: (i) the non-reception
periods, and (ii) the non-transmission periods.
         Embodiment 33. The method of embodiment 32, wherein the discontinuous mode
comprises at least one of a discontinuous reception (DRX) mode and a discontinuous
transmission (DTX) mode.
         Embodiment 34. The method of embodiment 32, wherein the modified mode is a
continuous mode.
         Embodiment 35. The method of embodiment 32, wherein the modified mode
comprises a modified discontinuous mode having a modified discontinuous mode parameter,
the modified discontinuous mode parameter being indicative of a shorter cycle between at least
one of (i) ends of two successive non-reception periods and (ii) ends of two successive non
transmission periods than that of a corresponding discontinuous mode parameter.
         Embodiment 36 A node (28) of a radio access network, RAN, configured for operation
over a radio interface (32) with a wireless terminal (30), the node including:
         a computer-implemented node radio resource control, RRC, unit (52) configured to
prepare a measurement request message for transmission to the wireless terminal (30), the
measurement request message being configured both to direct the wireless terminal (30) to
perform measurements relative to position determination signals transmitted from plural cells
of the radio access network (20) and to provide a parameter which specifies or influences
timing of a mode change, the mode change being between a discontinuous mode and a
modified mode, the discontinuous mode being configured to comprise at least one of non
reception periods between reception periods and non-transmission periods between
transmission periods, and wherein relative to the discontinuous mode the modified mode is
configured to shortened or eliminated at least one of following: i) the non-reception periods,
and ii) the non-transmission periods; and
         a transceiver (48) configured to transmit the measurement request message to the
wireless terminal (30) over the radio interface (32).
         Embodiment 37 A method of operating a node of a radio access network, RAN, for
communication with a wireless terminal over a radio interface (32), the method including:
         preparing a measurement request message for transmission to the wireless terminal
(30), the measurement request message being configured both to direct the wireless terminal
(30) to perform measurements relative to position determination signals transmitted from

                                                 45
plural cells of the radio access network (20) and to provide a parameter which specifies or
influences timing of a mode change, the mode change being between a discontinuous mode
and a modified mode, the discontinuous mode being configured to comprise at least one of
non-reception periods between reception periods and non-transmission periods between
transmission periods, and wherein relative to the discontinuous mode the modified mode is
configured to shorten or eliminate at least one of following: i) the non-reception periods, and
ii) the non-transmission periods; and
         transmitting the measurement request message to the wireless terminal (30) over the
radio interface (32).
         Embodiment 38 A method of operating a wireless terminal (30) in communication
with a radio access network (20) over a radio interface (32), the wireless terminal (30) being of
a type capable of operating in a discontinuous mode including non-reception periods between
reception periods, the method comprising:
         recognizing (17-1) that an emergency situation exists;
         the method including::
         as a result of the recognition, and when the wireless terminal is in a discontinuous
mode, changing (17-2) the wireless terminal (30) from the discontinuous mode to a modified
mode to facilitate performance of measurements, and wherein relative to the discontinuous
mode the non-reception periods are shortened or eliminated in the modified mode; and
         performing the measurements.
         Embodiment 39 A wireless terminal (30) configured for communication with a radio
access network (20) over a radio interface (32), the wireless terminal (30) comprising:
         a computer-implemented radio resource control, RRC, unit (42) configured to
recognize that an emergency situation exists;
         the wireless terminal characterized by:
         the computer-implemented radio resource control, RRC, unit (42) being further
configured to, as a result of the recognition, and when the wireless terminal is in a
discontinuous mode, change the operation mode of the wireless terminal (30) from the
discontinuous mode to a modified mode to facilitate performance of measurements, and
wherein, relative to the discontinuous mode, the non-reception periods are shortened or
eliminated in the modified mode; and
         perform the measurements.
     [01611      Although the description above contains many specificities, these should not be
         construed as limiting the scope of the invention but as merely providing illustrations of
         some of the presently preferred embodiments of this invention. Therefore, it will be

                                          46
appreciated that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other
embodiments which may become obvious to those skilled in the art, and that the scope
of the present invention is accordingly not to be unduly limited. Reference to an
element in the singular is not intended to mean "one and only one" unless explicitly so
stated, but rather "one or more." All structural, chemical, and functional equivalents to
the elements of the above-described preferred embodiment that are known to those of
ordinary skill in the art are expressly encompassed herein. Moreover, it is not
necessary for a device or method to address each and every problem sought to be
solved by the present invention, for it to be encompassed hereby.

                                                 47
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1. A method of operating a wireless terminal in communication with a radio access
             network over a radio interface comprising:
        while the wireless terminal is in a Radio Resource Control (RRC) connected state and
in a discontinuous reception (DRX) mode comprising idle periods, receiving a message from
the radio access network requesting that measurements be performed by the wireless terminal
on downlink signals transmitted from one or more cells of the radio access network;
        in response to receiving the message, shortening or eliminating at least one idle period
of the DRX mode; and
        performing the measurements.
        2.        The method of claim 1, wherein receiving a message requesting that
measurements are to be performed comprises receiving a message requesting that detection of
cell identity is to be performed.
        3.        The method of claim 1, wherein the measurements are for determining position
of the wireless terminal.
        4.        The method of claim 1, wherein the measurements comprise measuring the time
difference of arrival of reference signals from different cells.
        5.        The method of claim 1, wherein the message is a measurement request message,
and wherein the measurement request message is configured to direct the wireless terminal to
perform measurements on signals received by the wireless terminal from one or more cells of
the radio access network.
        6.        The method of claim 1, further comprising reverting back to the DRX mode
upon completion of the performance of the measurements.
        7.        The method of claim 1, wherein shortening or eliminating the at least one idle
period of the DRX mode is performed prior to performance of the measurements.
        8.        The method of claim 1, wherein shortening or eliminating at least one idle
period of the DRX mode comprises transitioning from an idle period of the DRX mode to an
on duration period of the DRX mode.

                                                 48
         9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the measurements are performed during the on
duration period of the DRX mode.
         10.     A wireless terminal comprising:
                         at least one processor;
                         at least one memory including instructions which, when executed by the
processor, cause the wireless terminal to:
         while the wireless terminal is in a Radio Resource Control (RRC) connected state and
in a discontinuous reception (DRX) mode comprising idle periods, receive a message from the
radio access network requesting that measurements be performed by the wireless terminal on
downlink signals transmitted from one or more cells of the radio access network;
         in response to receiving the message, shorten or eliminate at least one idle period of the
DRX mode; and
         perform the measurements.
         11.     The wireless terminal of claim 10, wherein receiving a message requesting that
measurements be performed comprises receiving a message requesting that detection of cell
identity be performed.
         12.     The wireless terminal of claim 10, wherein the measurements are for
determining position of the wireless terminal.
         13.     The wireless terminal of claim 10, wherein the measurements comprise
measuring the time difference of arrival of reference signals from different cells.
         14.     The wireless terminal of claim 10, wherein the message is a measurement
request message, and wherein the memory further includes instructions which, when executed
by the processor, cause the wireless terminal to receive position determination signals from one
or more cells of the radio access network, the measurement request message being configured
to direct the wireless terminal to perform measurements relative to the position determination
signals.
         15.     The wireless terminal of claim 10, wherein the memory further includes
instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the wireless terminal to revert back
to the DRX mode upon completion of the performance of the measurements.

                                              49
        16.    The wireless terminal of claim 10, wherein shortening or eliminating the at least
one idle period of the DRX mode is performed prior to performance of the measurements.
        17.    The wireless terminal of claim 10, wherein shortening or eliminating at least
one idle period of the DRX mode comprises transitioning from an idle period of the DRX
mode to an on duration period of the DRX mode.
        18.    The wireless terminal of claim 17, wherein the measurements are performed
during the on duration period of the DRX mode.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
